 A n n u a l R e p o r t o n Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 2 0 0 1 I n t e r n a t i o n a l M o n e t a r y F u n d ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 2001 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.T51 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-58906-040-7 Price: US$95.00 (US$47.50 to full-time university faculty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel.: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org Internet: http://www.imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 28, 2001 Dear Sir or Madam: I have the honor of transmitting to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 2001, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I would like to express our appreciation to the countries for their cooperation in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Horst Kohler Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definition of Acronyms Introduction Compilation Gu ide Page ix xi 1 2 Afghanistan, Islamic State of A lban ia Algeria Angola An t igua and Barbuda Argentina Armen ia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bo l iv ia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Bu rk ina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Ch i le China, People's Republic of Hong Kong SAR Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Costa Rica Co ted ' Ivo i re Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland ' Ind ia Page 8 13 18 24 30 34 39 43 47 52 56 62 69 73 83 90 98 102 107 115 120 124 128 132 144 148 154 161 168 173 181 185 190 196 203 212 221 226 v Page 233 239 245 251 255 263 269 279 284 287 291 296 301 306 311 315 321 325 329 336 344 348 352 358 361 365 369 375 379 385 390 395 401 405 409 414 421 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Indonesia Iran, Islamic Repub l ic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Repub l ic of Kuwa it Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho L ibe r ia L ibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist People's L i thuan ia Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Repub l ic of Madagascar Ma law i . .. Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mau r i t ius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar N am ib ia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands An t i l les New Zealand Nicaragua Page 437 445 452 457 460 464 468 472 476 480 489 493 496 504 508 513 518 523 528 533 536 542 546 549 555 560 566 576 580 587 596 599 604 608 616 619 627 632 641 646 652 660 666 669 673 677 Niger N iger ia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. V incent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Repub l ic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South A f r ica Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Sur iname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Repub l ic Tajikistan Tanzania Tha i land Togo Tonga Page 681 688 694 698 702 710 713 716 721 725 729 739 746 750 753 759 767 773 777 782 786 792 797 800 805 813 817 822 827 834 840 845 850 859 863 871 875 881 888 892 896 903 909 915 922 930 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanua tu Venezuela, Republica Bolivariana de CONTENTS Page 934 938 949 956 961 965 973 977 981 987 991 998 1002 Vietnam Yemen, Republic of Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Append ix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Append ix I I I: Country Table Matrix V ll Page 1007 1014 1017 1022 1026 1035 1038 1045 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, in c lud ing that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and has been prepared in close consultation w i th national authorities. The information is presented in a tabular format. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Exchange A f fa i rs Department by a staff team directed by Shogo Ish ii and comprising Jud it Vadasz, V i rg i l io A. Sandoval, and Harald Anderson, w i th the assistance of Matthew Fleming. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's six area departments, together w i th staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre and Lucy U l r ich of the External Relations Department and was produced by Mr. Anderson and the IMF Graphics Section. ix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Un ion (integrated by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) Asian monetary u n it Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of Southeast Asian Nations (integrated by B runei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and C lo th ing Central Bank of West A f r ican States; the West African states are Benin, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo Bank of Central Afr ican States; the Central A f r ican states are Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, Repub l ic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon Central American Common Market (integrated by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Commun i ty and Common Market (integrated by An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Tr in idad and Tobago). The Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market. Economic Commun i ty of Central A f r ican States (integrated by Angola, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Pr inc ipe) Central European Free Trade Area (integrated by Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia) Central Afr ican Economic and Monetary Commun i ty (integrated by the members of the BEAC) Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (integrated by Bu rund i, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, and Rwanda) Common effective preferential tariff of the ASEAN free trade zone Common external tar iff Communau te f inanc iere d 'A f r i q ue (administered by the BCEAO) and Cooperation f inanc iere en A f r ique centrale (administered by the BEAC) Commonwea l th of Independent States (integrated by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Ky rgyz Repub l ic, Moldova, Russian Federation, Ta j ik is tan, Turkmen is tan, Ukra ine, and Uzbekistan) Common Monetary Area (a s ing le exchange control territory compr is ing Lesotho, Nam ib ia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Caribbean Mu l t i l a t e r al C lear ing Fac i l i ty Counc il for Mu tual Economic Assistance (dissolved; formerly integrated by Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and V ie tnam) Common Market for Eastern and Southern A f r ica (integrated by Bu rund i, Comoros, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, D j ibou t i, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mau r i t ius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, and Z imbabwe) East African Commun i ty European Central Bank Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Angu i l la, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. V incent and the Grenad ines) Eastern Caribbean Cu r rency U n i on Economic Commun i ty of West Afr ican States (integrated by Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d ' lvo i re, The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea-B issau, L iber ia, Ma l i, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) European Coal and Steel Commun i ty European econom ic area European Free Trade Association (integrated by Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland) European monetary system European Economic and Monetary U n i on Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Un ion (former ly European Commun i ty; integrated by Austria, Be lg ium, Denmark, F in land, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Un i ted K ingdom) Former Soviet U n i on ACP ACU AFTA AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN ATC BCEAO BEAC CACM CAP CARICOM CEEAC CEFTA CEMAC CEPGL CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA COMESA EAC ECB ECCB ECCU ECOWAS ECSC EEA EFTA EMS EMU ERM EU FSU XI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution x ii GCC GSP LAIA LC LIBOR MERCOSUR MFA MFN MOF NAFTA OECD OECS OGL RCPSFM SACU SADC SDR SPARTECA UDEAC UN UNITA VAT WAEMU WAMA WTO DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gu l f; integrated by Bahrain, Kuwa i t, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates) Generalized system of preferences Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ch i le, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Repub l ica Bo l ivar iana de Venezuela) Letter of credit London interbank offered rate Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) Mu l t i f iber Arrangement Most favored nation Ministry of Finance North American Free Trade Agreement Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (integrated by Australia, Austria, Be lg ium, Canada, Czech Repub l ic, Denmark, F in land, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ire land, Italy, Japan, Repub l ic of Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and Un i ted States) Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. V incent and the Grenadines) Open general license Regional Council on Pub l ic Savings and Financial Markets (an ins t i tu t ion of WAEMU countries that is invo lved in the authorization for issuance and marketing of securities) Southern African Customs Un ion (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Commun i ty (integrated by Angola, Botswana, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Maur i t ius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special drawing rights South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, F i j i, K i r iba t i, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nau ru, New Zealand, N iue, Palau, Papua New Gu inea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Central African Customs and Economic Un ion (integrated by Cameroon, Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, R e p u b l ic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) United Nations National Union for the Total Independence of Angola Value-added tax West African Economic and Monetary Un ion (former ly WAMU; integrated by the members of the BCEAO) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) World Trade Organization Note: This list does not include acronyms of pu re ly na t ional ins t i tu t ions men t ioned in the coun try chapters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The report provides a detailed description of the exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions of individual member countries, as well as Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement, and Hong Kong SAR. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 2000, but, in appropriate cases, reference is made to sig- nificant developments that took place in early 2001. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects invo lv ing exchange restric- tions or exchange controls. As in previous reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 2000 and early 2001. The report is presented in a tabular format that enhances transparency and the un iform i ty of treatment of the information across countries and includes coverage on the regulatory frame- work for capital movements. The information is drawn from the exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database maintained by the IMF. The country tables present an abstract of the relevant information that is available to the IMF. For the first time, the report includes the official IMF classification table on Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy (Appendix I). This classification system is based on members' de facto regimes, which may d iffer from their officially announced arrangements. This table also takes into account changes that may have led to a reclassification of members' exchange rate arrangements in early 2001. The table on Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries (Appendix II) provides an overview of the characteristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. The Country Table Matrix (Appendix III) provides a f u ll listing of the rubr ics used in the database. When information in a particular category w i th in a section is not available at the t ime of publication, the category is dis- played with a note to that effect (that is, n.a.). When information is available on all but a particular item or items w i t h in a cate- gory, these items are not included in the table. In cases where members provided the IMF w i th the informa t ion that a category or an item is not regulated, these are marked by "n.r." The following refinements have been made to the tables: (1) under the section Arrangement for Payments and Receipts, the category prescription of currency requirements has been ex- panded to include controls on the use of domestic currency for current and capital account transactions between residents and nonresidents domestically and abroad, as well as controls on the use of foreign currency between residents; and (2) a category under Resident Accounts was added to reflect whe ther or not residents are allowed to hold accounts in domestic currency abroad. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV The member country has accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The member country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Ar t ic le X IV, Section 2. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The official legal tender of the coun try. The existence of another currency that is allowed to be used o f f ic ia l ly in the coun t ry. The existence of more than one exchange rate that may be used s imu l taneous ly for d i f fe rent purposes and/or by d i f fe rent entities. If there is one exchange rate, the system is called un i ta ry; if there are more than one, the system is called dual or m u l t i p l e. The currency of another country circulates as the sole legal tender, or the member belongs to a monetary or currency un ion in wh ich the same legal tender is shared by the members of the u n i o n. A monetary regime based on an explicit legislative commitment to exchange domestic currency for a specified foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate, combined w i th restrictions on the issu ing au tho r i ty to ensure the f u l f i l lm e nt of its legal ob l iga t ion. The country pegs its currency (formally or de facto) at a fixed rate to a major currency or a basket of currencies, where the exchange rate fluctuates w i t h in a narrow marg in of at most ±1% around a central rate. Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands The va lue of the currency is ma in ta ined w i t h in certain margins of f luc tua t ion around a formal or de facto fixed peg. The marg ins are w ider than ±1% around the central rate. C raw l ing peg C raw l ing band The currency is adjusted per iod ica l ly in small amounts at a fixed, preannounced rate or in response to changes in selective quan t i ta t ive indicators. The currency is ma in ta ined w i t h in certain f luc tua t ion margins around a central rate adjusted pe r iod ica l ly at a fixed preannounced rate, or in response to changes in selective quan t i ta t ive indicators. Managed floating w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The monetary au tho r i ty in f luences the movements of the exchange rate th rough ac t ive in terven t ion in the foreign exchange market w i thout spec ify ing, or p recomm i t t ing to, a preannounced path for the exchange rate. Independen t ly floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy The exchange rate is market de term ined, w i th any foreign exchange in te rven t ion aimed at modera t ing the rate of change and p reven t ing undue f lu c tu a t ions in the exchange rate, rather than at establishing a level for it. The existence of a special tax on fore ign exchange transactions. Foreign exchange transac t ions are subs id ized by u s ing separate, nonma rket exchange rates. Forward exchange market The existence of a forward exchange market. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage of forward operations refers to the case where an official entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of certain foreign exchange transactions. 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 3 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in istrat ion of control The official requirements affecting the selection of currency and the method of set- tlement of transactions w i th other countries. When a country has concluded payment agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to a pre- scription of currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The category includes information on the use of domestic currency in transactions between residents and nonresidents, both domestically and abroad. The category also indicates whether there are any restrictions on the use of foreign currency among residents. Two countries conclude an agreement to prescribe specific rules for payments to each other, inc lud ing cases when private parties are also obligated to use specific currencies. These agreements can be either operative or inoperative. More than two parties participate in a payment agreement. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset with some regularity the balance that arises in the payments to each other as a result of exchange of goods, services, or, less often, capital. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset exports of goods and services to one country with imports of goods and services from the same country, without payment. The authorities' division of responsibility for policy and the administration of ex- change controls, and the extent of delegation of powers to outside agencies (often banks authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions). International security restrictions Restrictions on payments and transfers for international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) International security restrictions on the basis of IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), which establishes the obligation of members to notify the IMF before imposing such restrictions, or, if circumstances preclude advance notification, as promptly as possible. In accordance with UN sanctions Sanctions imposed against a second body on the basis of a UN decision. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Official or private residents of a member default on their payments or transfers to nonresidents. This category includes only the situation in which the domestic cur- rency is available for the residents to settle their debts, but they are unable to obtain foreign exchange, for example, because of the presence of an off ic ia l ly announced or uno f f ic ial queu ing system. The category does not cover nonpayment of private parties due to the bankruptcy of the party concerned. The existence of separate rules for trading with gold both domestically and w i th foreign countries. The existence of regulations for the physical movement of means of payment be- tween countries. When information is available, the category distinguishes between separate limits for the (1) export and import of banknotes by travelers and (2) export and import of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions. Resident Accounts The category describes the manner in which the country treats resident accounts, if allowed, that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency, locally or abroad, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described: for example, if residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with or w i thout approval from the foreign exchange authority or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 COMPILATION GUIDE if these accounts are allowed to be held domestically or abroad; or likewise whether the balances on accounts held by residents in domestic currency are allowed to be converted into foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The category describes the manner in wh ich the country treats local nonres ident accounts, if allowed, that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na ture and operation of the va r ious types of accounts are also described. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are usua l ly accounts in domestic currency. Regulations do not allow or l im it the conversion and/or transfer of the balances of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments The category describes the nature and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports. Informa t ion on the existence of a foreign exchange plan, i.e., a p r ior a l loca t ion of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usua l ly on an annual basis, for the impor ta t ion of specific types of goods and services; in some cases, also differentiating between ind iv idual importers. Information on specific import financing regulations l im i t ing the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in wh ich the f inanc ing options d i f f er from the o f f ic ial regulations. The obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified (usua l ly domestic) financial ins t i tu t ion. Most often a compulsory government measure aimed at establishing the veracity of the import contract in terms of vo lume, qua l i ty, and price. Private parties are obligated to use letters of credit as a form of payment for the ir imports. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses The import licenses are not used for trade purposes but to restrict the a v a i l a b i l i ty of foreign exchange for legitimate trade. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures A list of goods that may be imported. A list of goods that may not be imported. The item indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other in te rna t ional transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requ iremen ts. The item refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific l im it is imposed on the amount to be imported. The item may inc lude the prohibition to import certain goods or all goods from a certain country. Several other nontariff measures are used by members (e.g., phyto- sanitary examinations, setting of standards, etc.), but these are not covered f u l ly by the annual report. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 5 Import taxes and /or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly A brief description of the import tax / tar iff system, i n c l u d i ng taxes lev ied on the fore ign exchange made ava i lab le for impor ts. Indicates if any taxes apply to the exchange side of an import transaction. Private parties are not allowed to engage in the import of certain commodities or they are limited in their activity. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Refers to the obligation of exporters to b r ing back in to the coun try export proceeds. Iden t i f ies restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as w e ll as regu la t ions on exports. Surrender requ iremen ts F inanc ing requirements Refers to regu la t ions r equ i r ing the rec ip ient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to the central bank, commercial banks, foreign exchange markets, or exchange dealers authorized for th is purpose. In fo rma t ion on specific export f in an c ing regu la t ions l im i t i ng the r igh ts of residents to conclude private contracts in wh ich the f in an c ing options d i f fer from the o f f ic ial regulations. Documentation requirements The same categories are used as in the case of imports. Export licenses Export taxes Restrictions on the right of residents to export goods. These restrictions may take the form of quotas (when a certain quan t i ty of sh ipment abroad is a l lowed) or the absence of quotas (when the licenses are issued at the discretion of the fore ign trade au tho r i ty ). A brief descr ip t ion of the export tax system, i n c l u d i ng the existence of taxes that are levied on the fore ign exchange earned by exporters. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related paymen ts Payments for travel Personal payments Describes the procedures for effec t ing paymen ts abroad for cu r rent transactions in inv i s ib les w i th reference to p r ior approval requ iremen ts, the existence of quan t i ta t ive and indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Detailed information on the most com- mon categories of transactions is prov ided on ly when regulations d i f f er for the va r ious categories. Ind ica t ive l im i ts establish m a x im um amoun ts up to wh ich the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the purpose of the transaction, m a in ly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those l im i ts are granted if the bona fide na ture of the transaction is established by the presentation of appropr ia te docu- mentation. Bona f ide tests also may be applied for transactions for wh ich quan t i ta t ive l im i ts have not been established. The comprehensive category includes freight/insurance ( inc lud ing possible regula- t ions on non-trade related insu rance paymen ts and transfers); un load ing /s torage costs; adm in i s t ra t ive expenses; comm iss ions; and customs duties and fees. The comp rehens ive category i n c l u d es p ro f i t s /d iv idend s; interest paymen ts ( i n c l u d i ng interest on debentures, mortgages, etc.); amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts; and payment and transfer of ren t. Inc ludes in te rna t ional travel for pleasure, recreation, business, etc. The comprehens ive category inc ludes medical costs; study abroad costs; pensions ( i n c l u d i ng regu la t ions on the payment and transfer of pensions by both state and p r i- vate pens ion providers on behalf of nonresidents, as we ll as the transfer of pens ions due to residents); and fam i ly maintenance/alimony ( inc lud ing regulations on the pay- ment and transfer abroad of fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony by residents and the transfer of f am i ly ma in tenance /a l imony received by residents from abroad). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 COMPILATION GUIDE Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Other paymen ts Transfer abroad of earnings by nonresidents wo rk ing in the country. Use of credit and deb it cards to pay for inv i s ib le transactions. The comprehensive category inc ludes subscr ip t ion /membersh ip fees, authors' royalties, consu l t ing / legal fees, and so forth. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Encompasses all regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in inv is ib les, as we ll as a description of any l im i ta t ion on th e ir conversion into domestic currency and the use of those receipts. The concepts of repatriation and surrender requ iremen ts are s im i lar to those applied to export proceeds. Refers ma in ly to the l im i ta t ions imposed on the use of receipts p rev ious ly deposited in certain bank accounts. Capital Transactions Describes regulations in f lu en c ing capital movements. The concepts of controls and capital transactions are interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital movements in- clude prohibitions; need for prior approval, authorization, and notification; mu l t ip le currency practices; d iscr im ina tory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the conclusion or execution of transactions or transfers with respect to both inward and outward capital flows or the ho ld ing of as- sets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations wou ld apply to receipts as we ll as payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. Moreover, because of their close association with capital movements, in fo rma t ion is also prov ided on local financial operations conducted in foreign cur- rency. Regarding the latter, it indicates specific regulations in force l im i t ing residents and nonresidents to issue a security denominated in foreign currency or, generally, l im i ta t ions on agreeing upon a contract expressed in terms of foreign exchange. Refers to the pub l ic o f fe r ing or private placement on a primary market or l i s t ing on a secondary market. Refers to shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature, and bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. Transactions w i th shares and other securities of a participating nature are included in the category if the inves tment is not made to acquire a lasting economic interest in the management of the enterprise concerned. Investment to acquire a lasting economic interest is treated under direct investments. Refers to bonds and other securities w i th an original maturity of more than one year. The term "other securities" inc ludes notes and debentures. Refers to securities w i th an original ma tur i ty of one year or less and inc ludes short- term instruments, such as certificates of deposit and b i l ls of exchange. It also in- cludes treasury b i l ls and other short-term government paper, banker's acceptances, commercial paper, interbank deposits, and repurchase agreements. Includes share certificates and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an in s t i tu t ion for co l lec t ive investment, such as mu tual funds, and u n it and inves tment trusts. Refers to operations in other negotiable ins t rumen ts and nonsecur i t ized claims not covered under the above subsections. These may inc lude operations in rights; war- rants; f inanc ial options and fu tu res; secondary market operations in other f inanc ial c la ims ( i n c l u d i ng sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 7 ins t rumen ts o r ig ina t ing as loans, receivables, and discounted b i l ls of trade); forward operations ( in c lud ing those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign cu r rency, as we ll as swaps of any of the ins t rumen ts listed above). Con tro ls on operations in foreign exchange w i thout any other u n d e r l y i ng transaction (on spot or forward trading on the foreign exchange markets, on forward cover operations, etc.) are also inc luded here. Covers operations d irec t ly l inked w i th in te rna t ional trade transactions or w i th the rende r ing of in te rna t ional services. The category inc ludes credits other than commercial credits granted by all residents, inc lud ing by banks to nonresidents or vice versa. The category inc ludes sureties, guarantees, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies by resi- dents to nonresidents and vice versa. It also includes guarantees and sureties, i n c l u d i ng securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract, such as warrants or avals, performance bonds, and standby letters of credit; and f in an c i al backup facilities, which are credit facilities used as a guarantee for independent f inanc ial operations. Refers to inves tment for the purpose of establishing lasting economic re la t ions both abroad by residents and in the country by nonresidents. These inves tmen ts are essen- tially for the purpose of producing goods and services, and, in particular, investments that allow investor participation in the management of the enterprise. It in c lud es the creation or extension of a who l ly owned enterprise, subs id iary, or branch and the acquisition of f u ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective in f luence over the operations of th is enterprise. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Refers to the transfer of pr inc ipa l, inc lud ing the in i t ial capital and capital gains, of a direct inves tment as defined above. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Refers to the acqu i s i t ion of real estate not associated w i th direct inves tmen t. It wou ld inc lude, for example, inves tmen ts of a pure ly f inanc ial na tu re in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Covers transfers initiated on behalf of private persons and intended to benefit another pr iva te person. It inc ludes transactions i n v o l v i ng property to w h i ch a prom ise of a re turn to the owner w i th paymen ts of interest is attached (loans, settlements of debt in their country of origin by immigrants), or transfers free of charge to the beneficiary (g if ts and endowments, loans, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants' assets). Describes regu la t ions that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary, p rud en- t ia l, and fore ign exchange controls. Inc lu s ion of an entry in th is part does not neces- sarily s ign i fy that the aim of the measure is to control the f low of capital. Some of these items (bo r row ing abroad, l end ing to nonresidents, purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange, inve s tment regu la t ions) cou ld mere ly be repetitions of the entries under respective categories of controls on capital and money market instruments, controls on credit operations, or direct investments when the same regu la t ions app ly to comme rc ial banks as to o ther residents. The item describes the existence and contents of regu la t ions on certain comme rc ial bank balance sheet items ( in c lud ing capital) or absolute l im i ts covering commerc ial banks' positions in foreign currencies ( inc lud ing gold). Provisions specific to institutional investors Describes controls specific to institutions, such as insurance companies and pension fund s. Other restrictions imposed by securities laws Refers to add i t ional regu la t ions on capital movemen ts imposed by those laws, such as res tr ic t ions on the l i s t i ng of fo re ign securities on local security markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the central bank, maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to no more than 10% of convertible currency transactions, including a few transactions of the central government (mainly debt-service payments) and certain foreign currency incomes earned in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Almost all other official transactions are conducted at a commercial rate set by the government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. The exchange rate applied to transactions of international organizations is set at 80% of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the floating commercial market rate. The DAB posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. n.a. n.a. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official market or the commercial banking sector. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payment agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the proce- dures set forth in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payment agreements are determined under each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. n.a. n.a. The Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payment agreements with Bulgaria, China, and Russia. Some of these have been inactive for several years, and others are being phased out. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No restrictions apply to transactions in the free exchange market. International security restrictions n.a. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 9 Payment arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold b u l- lion, silver, and jewelry require permission from the DAB and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and s i lver jewe lry and other articles con ta in ing m inor quan- tities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers may b r ing in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers entering the Is lam ic State of Afghan is tan are requ i red to spend a m i n im um of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of fore ign currency but must declare it when en ter ing the country if they intend to take out any un- spent amount on departure, subject to the above m i n im um conversion requ i remen t. Resident Accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments An annual import program drawn up by the M in i s t ry of Commerce covers both p u b l ic and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circum- stances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. F inanc ing requirements for imports n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Payments for imports through the banking system to countries w i th wh ich the I s lam ic State of Afghanistan has payment agreements may usua l ly be made only under LCs. Payments to other countries may be made under LCs, against b i l ls for collection, or against an unde r- taking by the importer to import goods of at least an equ iva lent va lue to the payment made ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are requ i red to lodge m i n im um import deposits w i th banks when they open LCs. The deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. va lue of imports, are 20% for essential products and range from 30% to 60% for other products. Import l icenses and other non tar i ff measures Impor ts are not subject to licenses, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Positive list Nega t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commod i t ies to be traded. The impor ta t ion of certain drugs, l iquo r, arms, and ammun i t ion is prohibited on grounds of pub l ic policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on most imports, but tariff rates on most consumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import taxes and /or tar i f fs State impo rt monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing do l lar ac- counts w i th the DAB. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the c lear ing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trad ing in conver t ib le currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for three, six, or twe lve months, depend ing on the country of destination. Du r ing the re levant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of p roh ib i ted goods. A l terna t ive ly, at the end of the relevant ho ld ing period l im i t, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account w i th a bank in the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from exports of raisins, fresh fru i ts, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, med ic i- nal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. F inanc ing requirements Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export transactions must be registered. The exportation of op ium and museum pieces is proh ib i ted. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange for most private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. Investment-related paymen ts In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal paymen ts The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $1 and 1% of hard currency for pe rm i ts that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. Yes. The l im it for tourist travel is $1,000, except for private travel to India, for wh ich the l im it is the equ iv a l ent of $700. The l im it for business travel is $15,000. For med ical trea tmen t, the central bank levies a comm iss ion of Af 0.75 per $1. No informa t ion is available for other types of personal payments other than medical costs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 11 Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Yes. Norma l ly, the DAB grants $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must convert 60% of their foreign currency salaries into Afghanis at the official rate. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Investment Committee. The law stipulates that foreign investment in the Islamic State of Afghanistan can take place only through jo int ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49%, and that an in- vestment approved by the Investment Committee requires no further license in order to operate in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law includes the following provisions: (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning w i th the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (ma in ly for capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first d i s t r ibu- tion of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among the prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by gov- ernment agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law, as long as the prices are not more than 15% h igher than those of foreign suppliers. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Capital may be repatriated after f ive years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of the total registered capital. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Changes During 1995-2000 The IMF has not received from the authorities the informa t ion required for a descr ip t ion of the exchange and trade system since 1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of A lban ia is the A lban ian lek. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supply and demand for foreign exchange. The Bank of A lban ia (BOA) calculates and announces the da i ly average ex- change rates for the do l lar and 22 other ma jor currencies. No marg ins are set between buy- ing and se l l ing rates for the official exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge commissions rang ing from 0.2% to 2%, depend ing on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payment for all merchandise trade is made in convertible currencies. All transactions u n d er b i la teral payment agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of c lear ing ac- counts is awa i t ing the outcome of negotiations. All contracts denominated and payable in foreign currenc ies are va l id. n.a. n.a. A lban ia ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements in nonconver t ib le currencies w i th A lge r ia, Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, the Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and Vietnam. A lban ia also ma in ta ins b i la te ral payment agreements in convertible currencies w i th Bulgaria, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Greece, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Romania, Turkey, Vietnam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The BOA is vested w i th the powers to adm in is ter exchange controls. The BOA is the on ly authority that has the right to (1) license, authorize, regulate, supervise, and revoke the licenses of foreign exchange market operations, as well as second tier banks; (2) de f ine the l im i ts of the ir activities; and (3) regulate and supervise foreign exchange operations and international payments in order to prevent any participant from dom ina t ing the market and unde rm in ing the va lue of the lek through speculation. In accordance w i th anti-money launder ing legislation, banks are required to ma in ta in re- cords of all cash transactions in excess of lek 2 m i l l ion (approximately $14,000) and on all other transactions in excess of lek 70 m i l l i on (approximately $500,000), and to report these to the au thor i ty responsible for the preven t ion of money launde r ing. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ALBANIA Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial A lban ia has arrears on debts with China, Greece, the Russian Federation, Turkey, and w i th a number of commercial creditors. Official payment arrears to the Russian Federation are subject to a Paris C lub Agreement and their rescheduling awaits the completion of bilateral negotiations. Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. n .r. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Natural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign natural persons may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount declared when entering the country. Albanian natural or ju r id ical persons are not allowed to export amounts larger than $20,000 or its equivalent. Na tural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Natural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to import foreign currency and traveler's checks up to $10,000 or its equivalent in any other currency. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Residents —natural or jur id ical persons—may open and maintain foreign currency- denominated accounts with banks and financial institutions abroad only with the pr ior approval of the BOA, which may control and monitor transactions affecting such accounts. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 15 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports For imports equal to or larger than $20,000 or its equ iva len t, the f o l l ow i ng documen ts must be subm i t ted: (1) an app l ica t ion for carrying out the transaction as we ll as a declaration spec i fy ing in detail the na ture of the transaction; (2) a contract and an invo ice (or a pro forma invoice) issued by the na tural or ju r id i c al person supp ly ing the goods; and (3) a dec- laration issued by the na tu ral or j u r i d i c al person w i sh ing to carry out the transaction w i th the bank that the u n d e r l y i ng document has not been used to support prev ious transactions. Letters of credit LCs, bank guarantees, or cash against documen ts shou ld be used for the payment of imports equal to or in excess of $200,000 or its e q u i v a l e n t. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Au toma t ic l icens ing res tr ic t ions are app l ied on fu el p roduc ts to support the imp l em en t a t ion of domestic techn ical standards. The import of the f o l l ow i ng products are p roh ib i ted: (1) dangerous waste, such as tox ic corrosives, res idual waste from explosives, and rad ioac t ive materials; (2) m i l i t a ry poisons, chem ical weapons, and other strong poisons; (3) narcotics and psychotropic substances; and (4) an imal products from infec ted coun tr ies. Excise taxes on domestic and imported goods are un i f ied and the tariff on diesel is 20%. There are four tariff rates, wh ich are applied to the c.i.f. value: zero, 2%, 10%, and 15% (reduced from 20%, effec t ive January 1, 2000, and from 18%, e f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ irements A ll pr iva te and p u b l ic companies or i n d i v i d u a ls ope ra t ing in the export sector are r equ i r ed to repatriate th e ir fo re ign exchange receipts. F in an c ing requirements Documen ta t ion requ irements No. No. Export licenses W ithout quotas Export taxes Export bans app ly on copper and articles made thereof; works of art, arms and amm u n i- t ion s, as w e ll as parts and accessories therefor; and exp los ives and py ro techn ic p roduc t s. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Suppor t ing documen ts are requ i red for transactions exceeding $20,000. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ALBANIA Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Purchases of these ins t rumen ts abroad by residents requ ire pr ior approval of the BOA. Trade in these instruments locally or abroad is subject to the control of the A lban ian Securities Comm iss ion. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Transactions in these instruments are subject to the control of the A lban ian Securities Commission, but these are not yet regulated. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Commercial banks may not, w i thout the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other f inanc ial institutions. Commercial banks may not, w i thout the pr ior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Purchase locally by nonresidents The controls relate only to the purchase of land. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Prior BOA approval is required. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may not, w i thout the pr ior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 10% of the bank 's capital for a single currency and 20% for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 17 On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.r. n.r. Imports and import payments January L The max imum tariff rate was reduced to 18% from 20%. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January L The maximum tariff rate was reduced to 15% from 18%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of Acceptance: September 15, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external va lue of the d inar is set at the interbank foreign exchange market rate. No ma rg in l im i ts are imposed on the buy ing and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a marg in of DA 0.017 has been established between the buy ing and se l l ing rates of the Bank of A lger ia (BOA) for the d inar against the do l lar. Exchange tax Exchange sub s idy No. No. Forward exchange market Au thor ized banks may p rov ide forward cover to residents, but this has not taken place. Prescr ipt ion of currency requ iremen ts Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements C lear ing agreements Adm in i s t r a t i on of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th coun tr ies w i th wh ich no payment agreements are in force are made in conver t ib le currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts may be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supp l ier or that of the country of o r ig in of the merchandise, except that transactions with Morocco may be effected in dollars through special clearing accounts ma in ta ined at the central banks of the respective countries. n.a. n.a. Specified noncommercial settlements w i th Morocco and Tun is ia are made through a Moroccan d i rham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tunisian d inar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general ju r i sd i c t ion over exchange controls. Au thor i ty for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to seven commercial banks and the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. No. No. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic pur- poses. Unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence na t iona le pour la d is t r ibu t ion et la transformation de 1'or et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR); th is agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and d is t r ibu te any other precious metals. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 19 Controls on external trade AGENOR is authorized to import and export any precious metals, inc lud ing gold. Gold used by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonres ident travelers may reexport any fore ign currency they declared upon en try. Res ident trave lers may export foreign currency w i thd rawn from the ir fo re ign cu r rency accounts up to the equ iva lent of F 50,000 a t r ip for an un l im i t ed numb er of tr ips a year. Res ident travelers may re import up to DA 200 a person. Nonres iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to b r ing in Algerian d in ar banknotes. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes, but residents and nonresidents must declare them when they enter Algeria. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be freely credited with book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad us ing e i ther postal or bank ing facilities, imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the t ime of the account ho lde r 's entry into the country, and domestic bank- to-bank book transfers between accounts he ld by ind iv idua ls. These accounts may be deb- ited freely for book transfers abroad but only through the bank ing system. They may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of con- ve r t ib le foreign currenc ies to be phys ica l ly exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the BOA. Economic entities are also allowed to open foreign currency accounts for rece iv ing and mak ing foreign currency transfers, inc lud ing the retained portion of the ir export proceeds. They may transfer f u n ds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make paymen ts in A lger ia or to make foreign currency payments for goods and services per ta in ing to the ir business. No. No. These accounts are perm i t ted in l im i t ed cases, such as for embassies. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited w i th foreign currency banknotes and other means of pay- ment denominated in foreign currency, as we ll as other dinar-denominated f u n ds that meet all requ i remen ts for transfers abroad. They may be debited w i thout restrictions to make transfers abroad, to export through w i thd rawa ls of foreign banknotes, and to make d inar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. F inal departure accounts may be opened, w i thout prior authorization, in the name of any na tural person res id ing in A lger ia who is not of A lger ian na t iona l i ty, and who in tends to leave A lger ia to re tu rn to his or her coun try of or ig in. These accounts may be credited w i th an amount equ iv a l ent to the ho ld ings as of October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; w i th the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid d i rec t ly by a m in i s t e r i al officer; w i th the proceeds of the sale of secur i t ies th rough a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ALGERIA bank; and w i th any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited w i t h o ut pr ior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account ho lder. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Blocked accounts Ou tward transfers requ i re i n d i v i d u al app roval from the BOA. I n d i v i d u al suspense accounts may be opened w i thout au thor iza t ion and may be cred i ted w i th payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrow ing by importers for import f inanc ing purposes must be arranged through the authorized in termed iary banks. Except when otherwise indicated by the BOA, down payments for imports may not exceed 15% of the total v a lue of imports. When a p u b l ic agency, p u b l ic enterprise, or m in i s t ry incu rs expend i tu res for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control fo rma l i t ies have been completed. A l though not an o f f ic ial regu la t ion, dom ic i led banks may requ i re from the importer, as part of th e ir no rmal commercial operations, a deposit in d ina rs up to the f u ll v a lue of the imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. All impor ts are subject to obligatory dom i c i l i a t ion at an authorized in te rmed ia ry bank, w h i ch an impor ter must establish by subm i t t ing a commerc ial contract or pro fo rma in- voice. Import payments may be made freely but on ly through the dom i c i l ed bank, wh i ch effects paymen ts in foreign exchange and debits the impo r te r 's account w i th correspond ing amoun ts in d inars va lued at the off ic ial exchange rate. Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Any ju r id i c al or na tural person registered under the Commercial Register ( i n c l u d i ng concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods w i thout pr ior authorization; no license is needed. There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A small numb er of imports are p roh ib i ted for re l ig ious or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in 120 days. Pe tro leum compan ies are subject to the same ru le, but proceeds may be deposited in a guaranteed account w i th a fore ign correspondent bank of the BOA. All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, byproducts from gas, and m i n- eral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must su r render 50% of the proceeds to the in terbank market; the rema in ing portion may be retained in a fore ign currency account. Exporters may use the f u n ds in these accounts for imports or other paymen ts pe r ta in ing to the ir business, or they may transfer the f u n ds to another for- e ign currency account. Proceeds from exports of nonhydrocarbons, and nonm in e r a ls may be surrendered to comme rc ial banks and other authorized par t ic ipan ts in the in te rbank for- e ign exchange marke t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 21 F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requirements are not enforced in practice. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are prohibited, and certain exports are proh ib i ted for social or c u l t u r al reasons regardless of destination. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Effective Ap r il 2, 2000, the transfer abroad of d iv idends and interest is permitted, provided it is executed through an authorized intermediary. In fo rma t ion is not available on the payment or transfer of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Profit remittances are permitted, provided tax obligations have been met. Au tho r iza t ion is to be granted by the exchange control authorities w i th in two months of request. Transfer must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism by Algerian residents were suspended in Oc- tober 1986. P i lgr ims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals. The amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be provided in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for w i th imported foreign exchange. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The quan t i ta t ive l im it is DA 15,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval of the BOA is required for transfers of pension income. For fam i ly ma in tenance and a l imony payments, the BOA must authorize the granting of foreign exchange. L im i ts are set on a case-by-case basis. The limits for medical costs are DA 15,900 for adults and DA 7,600 for children under 15 years old. Effec t ive Ju ly 26, 2000, the l im it for studies abroad is DA 9,000 (prev ious ly DA 7,500) a month between September 1 and June 30. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on fam i ly maintenance and alimony transfers. Foreign workers' wages Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for pub l ic enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of the ir salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required for payments relating to subscriptions and membe rsh ip fees and consu l t ing and legal fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ALGERIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts F if ty percent of receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to ind iv idual approval by the BOA. Effective Apr il 2, 2000, portfolio investment (purchase of securities on the Algerian stock exchange) is open to nonresidents. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments are allowed, but they must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Effective Ap r il 2, 2000, the transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of shares or other securities of a participating nature on the stock exchange is permitted, provided the transfer is effected through authorized intermediaries (banks). Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective Ap r il 2, 2000, nonresidents may invest in bonds or other debt securities. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments are allowed, but they must be effected through an authorized intermediary. Effective Ap r il 2, 2000, the transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of portfolio invest- ments (bonds or other debt securities) on the stock exchange may be made freely, but transfers must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. n.r. Yes. There are controls on all credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies by residents to nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inwa rd direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal cap i tal movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrow ing abroad ALGERIA 23 Foreign direct inves tment is permitted freely except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that pr ior declaration is made to the authorities. Effective April 2, 2000, proceeds from disinvestment following the closing or transfer of a business operation may be transferred abroad through banks or authorized intermediaries, subject to pr ior approval. Yes. n.a. Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may borrow from abroad for the ir own needs or for those of the ir c l ien ts. Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may on - lend fore ign f u n ds borrowed abroad. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are required to meet the fo l low ing: (1) a max imum spread of 10% between the ir position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their counterpart funds in domestic currency; and (2) a max imum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, wh ichever is highest) for all foreign currencies and domestic currency resources. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2000 Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers April 2. Transfers abroad of d iv idends and interest were permitted, provided they are executed through an authorized in termed iary. July 26. The l im it for studies abroad was raised to DA 9,000 (prev ious ly DA 7,500) a mon th between September 1 and June 30. Capital transact ions Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts Controls on l iqu id a t ion of direct inve s tment April 2. Transfers abroad of proceeds from the sale of portfolio investments (bonds or other debt securities) on the stock exchange may be made freely, but they must be executed th rough an authorized in termed iary. April 2. Nonresidents were allowed to invest in bonds or other debt securities. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments were also allowed, but they must be effected through an authorized in te rmed ia ry. April 2. Portfolio investment (purchase of securities on the Algerian stock exchange) was opened to nonresidents. April 2. The transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of shares or other securities of a par- t ic ipa t ing nature on the stock exchange was permitted, provided the transfer is effected th rough authorized in termed iar ies (banks). April 2. Proceeds from d is inves tment fo l low ing the closing or transfer of a business opera- t ion were a l lowed to be transferred abroad through banks or authorized in te rmed ia r ies, subject to p r ior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Angola is the Angolan kwanza. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The kwanza floats freely, with the central bank setting a reference rate for its transactions based on the previous day's average market rate. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and w i th the ir customers at freely negotiated rates. The National Bank of Angola (BNA) intervenes in the foreign exchange market to moderate undue fluc- tuations in the exchange rate. Foreign exchange operations, except transactions between banking institutions, are subject to stamp duty ranging from 0.5% to 1.5%. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with other countries may be made through bank transfers, LCs, or f inanc ing and banking agreements. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative An agreement with Brazil is in effect. Clearing agreements Angola was an observer in COMES A u n t il it withdrew. Adm in istrat ion of control The BNA is the exchange authority and may delegate its powers pertaining to specific activities to other entities. All capital transactions and inv is ib le operations exceeding $50,000 are subject to prior BNA authorization. The BNA has authorized commercial banks and exchange bureaus to carry out transactions in the official foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange bureaus are licensed to deal in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current inv is ib le operations of private nature. Banks are allowed to execute capital transactions (after an authorization from the BNA has been issued), and permitted invisible operations (under $50,000) and foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 25 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold and trade gold on ly in the form of jewe l ry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold are the monopoly of the BNA. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are proh ib i ted. Residents are permitted to take out more than $10,000 in foreign exchange only if they present exchange purchase documents, inc lud ing the reason for the purchase. Nonresidents are allowed to b r ing into the country any amount of foreign exchange, but when leaving Angola are allowed to take w i th them more than $5,000 on ly if the excess was declared upon arrival into the coun try. The export and reexport of banknotes and trave ler's checks by b ank ing in s t i tu t ions requires a pr ior authorization issued by the Governor of the BNA. Imports of domestic currency are proh ib i ted. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks that a resident person may bring into the country; for nonresidents, any amount in excess of $5,000 must be declared upon arr iva l. Banking ins t i tu t ions are free to import banknotes and trave ler's checks, but they must subm it a mon th ly report to the BNA. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Checkbooks may not be issued against accounts of ju r id ical and natural persons. These accounts may be credited by depositing foreign currency or any other ins trument accepted internationally and accruing interest. These accounts may be debited with withdrawal or sale of foreign exchange to settle imports or capital payments, as allowed by law. Transfers between these accounts are remitted, but overdrafts are not. After prior BNA approval, ju r id ical persons are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts that have been credited w i th the ir export receipts to pay for imports of goods and services. For natural persons, no approval is required for opening such accounts. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited w i th foreign currency imported from abroad, w i th the ac- crued interest or w i th sums from nonresidents' type A domestic currency accounts. They may be debited w i th the w i thd rawal or sale of foreign currency, payments for foreign cur- rency expenditures, or the repatriation of amounts authorized by the BNA. Nonresidents may open two types of domestic currency accounts: type A and type B. The type A account may be credited w i th the proceeds of the sale of cash from the fore ign ex- change account and, after prior BNA authorization, w i th receipts from the non res iden t 's activities in Angola. These accounts may be debited for payments of local expenses and against purchases of foreign currency to be deposited in a foreign currency account he ld by the same en t i ty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ANGOLA The type B account may only be credited with receipts of the nonresident's activity in the country (when authorized by the BNA), and may only be debited for payment of local expenses. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses There are restrictions on the imports of money, toxic products, and certain drugs by private persons. Imports of arms and ammun i t ion for personal use are subject to authorization by the Ministry of the Interior. Import licensing requirements were eliminated on November 10, 2000. Prior to that date, imports of goods above $5,000 required trade licenses. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs The tar iff system comprises eight rates: 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, and 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly The stamp tax is collected through the exchange system. Imports of oil products and derivatives may be effected on ly by the pub l ic oil company. Imports of arms and ammun i t ion for warfare purposes may be effected only by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Domestic oil companies must surrender all their export proceeds to the BNA. Foreign oil companies are allowed, under an authorization, to retain their export receipts abroad for payment of imports of goods and services, interest and profits transfer, and the amortization of capital. These companies must import funds for payment of royalties, taxes, and local expenses. In the non-oil sector, foreign exchange earnings must be surrendered to domestic banks. Diamond companies are allowed to retain in banks in the country a percentage of the receipts of exports for payment of imports of goods and services. They may also retain part of the ir receipts abroad in escrow accounts, when requested as a guarantee against fore ign borrowing. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports of goods and services are subject to l icens ing. Exports of arms and amm u n- ition, and ethnological collections are prohibited. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 27 Export taxes Export taxes comprise six rates: 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, and 10%. animals and animal products, historical objects, and petroleum. Reexports of goods other than personal belongings are also prohibited. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authorization of the BNA is required for payments for inv is ib les in excess of $50,000; below that, banks may sell the foreign exchange. Trade-related payments Above $50,000, service contracts w i th nonresidents are subject to licensing. Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Foreign investors have to obtain MOF authorization to rem it profits and d iv idend s, provided the investment in the resident company exceeds $250,000. Residents may, upon presentation of a passport and an airline ticket, purchase foreign ex- change from financial institutions as follows: for personal travel, $10,000 a person a trip; for business travel, a max imum per d iem of $500, up to a max imum of $15,000; for educa- tional, scientific, or cu l tural reasons, $2,000 a person a month (this is limited to resident persons who are temporarily abroad); and for medical reasons, a max imum of $5,000. Prior approval is required for the payment of pensions above $50,000. Up to the equivalent of $2,000 a month may be authorized to Angolans or foreigners resid- ing abroad who are direct descendants of and f inanc ia l ly dependent upon residents of An- gola, provided that they are under 18 or over 60 years of age, are students, or are incapable of working. Yes. Effective September 22, 2000, only banks may issue credit cards. Credit card use abroad is limited to the equ iva lent of $10,000. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Service earn ings must be surrendered to the banks, unless the prov ider is authorized by the BNA to retain a certain proportion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Foreign inves tment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acquisition of equity, total or partial takeover of operations, and lending related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law as well as the provi- sions of fore ign exchange legislation and regu la t ions. Imp lemen ta t ion is the respons ib i l i ty ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 ANGOLA of the Foreign Investment Institute. Foreign investments in the areas of petroleum produc- tion, diamond m in ing, and financial institutions are governed by separate legislation. All capital transfers are subject to BNA licensing. Supplier credits must be licensed for statisti- cal purposes. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are controls on all of these transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Operations are subject to licensing for statistical purposes only. By residents to nonresidents Supplier credits should be reported to the BNA. To residents from nonresidents Supp l ier credits should be reported to the BNA. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment According to the Exchange Control Law, Angolan citizens are permitted to invest abroad. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Foreign investment is prohibited in the fo l low ing areas: (1) defense, internal p u b l ic order, and state security; (2) central banking and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to transfer abroad the proceeds of the sale of investments, inc lud ing gains and amounts owed to them after payments of taxes due, but prior approval of the MOF is required. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all of these transactions. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are controls on all of these transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange to resident exporters, Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.r. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effective Apr il 1, 2000, the BNA reduced reserve requirements on demand deposits in local currency to 30% from 35%. On August 7, 2000, the base of reserve requirements was extended to include demand deposits in foreign currency, with a coefficient of 5%. Liquid asset requirements Liquid asset requirements are 50% of the foreign exchange portfolio. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 29 Credit controls Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to $500,000; for foreign exchange bureaus, the amount is up to $150,000. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n .r. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments November 10. Import licensing requirements were eliminated. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions September 22. Only banks may issue credit cards. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April I. The BNA reduced reserve requirements on demand deposits in local currency to 30% from 35%. August 7. The base of reserve requirements was extended to include demand deposits in foreign currency, with a coefficient of 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of An t igua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian do l lar and the pound sterling. A foreign exchange levy of 1% is applied on purchases of foreign currency, n.a. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. n.a. n.a. An t igua and Barbuda is a member of the CARICOM. Yes. The MOF applies exchange controls to all foreign currency transactions. However, up to the equ iva lent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency may be purchased w i thout MOF approval. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Yes. No. n.a. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts may be opened, especially in tourist-oriented industries or in export trade where receipts are p r ima r i ly in foreign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or f inanced in foreign currency. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 31 Yes. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required External accounts may be maintained in any currency and may be credited w i th receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports n.a. n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence. Up to EC$250,000 a transaction may be purchased in foreign currency without MOF approval. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Certain commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Most goods may be freely imported under OGLs granted by the MOF and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce. External tariff rates range from zero to 35% for nearly all items. Effective Apr il 1, 2000, Antigua and Barbuda applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET with external tariff rates ranging from zero to 20% for nearly all items. There are no tariffs on a number of items, including m i lk and poultry. Exemptions from import duties exist for some goods, inc lud ing basic foods and agricultural goods. Other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis. State import monopo ly n.a. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place w i th in the bonded area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for invisibles (related to authorized imports) exceeding ECS 100,000 requ i re p r ior approval for certain categories, except for payments for freight, insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, and profits and dividends, which are not subject to controls. Profits may be remitted in fu ll after compliance with corporate income tax payments. Veri- fication is not applied in practice; the authorities, however, can decide to undertake such verification. Information is not available on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required only for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the transfer of pensions. Payments related to f am i ly maintenance and alimony are allowed if provided for in the contract. For payments related to medical and studies abroad, approval on a case-by-case basis is required only for amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of EC$ 100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Other payments Prior approval These remittances are allowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. n.a. Payments for consulting and legal fees are allowed, if provided for in the contract. Quantitative limits The l im it for subscriptions and membership fees is ECS 10,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 33 Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Large transfers abroad for investment purposes may be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required, and the purchase must be approved by the Cabinet. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws As a result of laws governing offshore financial institutions, (1) the International F inanc ial Sector Authority was created, with responsibility for licensing offshore financial institu- tions; (2) there are annual inspections of offshore financial institutions; (3) the m i n im um capital requirement for offshore banks is US$5 million, of which US$1.5 m i l l ion is to be deposited in the domestic banking system; (4) all bank directors are to be natural persons, at least one of whom must be Antiguan (thus making bank ownership more transparent); and (5) offshore banks are allowed to extend credit to the Antiguan government. MOF approval is required for these transactions. Loans are subject to a 3% stamp duty. n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments April 1. Antigua and Barbuda applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET with external tariff rates ranging from zero to 20% for nearly all items. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argen t ina is the Argentine peso. Transactions in convertible currencies are permitted, and contracts in these currencies are legally enforceable, although the currencies are not legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions The external va lue of the peso is pegged to the dollar under a currency board type of ar- rangement. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. No. No. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with countries w i th wh ich there are no payment agreements must be settled in freely convertible currencies. W i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAI A, payments between Argentina and other LAIA countries are settled voluntarily through payment agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. Argentina has agreements with Cuba, Malaysia, and Russia. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through accounts opened w i th the Cen- tral Bank of Argentina (BCRA) and the other central banks concerned, with the exception of Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. Yes. All exchange transactions are carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose, w i th no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and f inanc ial companies. Each type of institution is subject to separate regulations. Yes. No. Restrictions are imposed on current payments w i th respect to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. Payment arrears No. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 35 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or gold bars among themselves, and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals, the market value of which is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.5%, as well as a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or bars against foreign banknotes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or in foreign exchange, provided that identi- fication requirements aimed, among other things, at preventing money laundering have been met. Foreign exchange accounts must be denominated in convertible currencies and may be credited only with cash or with remittances in the following currencies: U.S. dol- lars for current accounts, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and other currencies that the BCRA explicitly authorizes at the request of financial institutions for savings deposits and fixed-term accounts. Credit balances may be used freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. The use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or in foreign exchange, provided that identi- fication requirements aimed, among other things, at preventing money laundering have been met. Checking account requirements include a domicile in Argentina. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Due to the currency board regime, peso-dollar accounts are convertible. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for a reduced list of products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 ARGENTINA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are prescribed for paper products and footwear. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Restrictions are in force solely for security, hygiene, and pub l ic health reasons. OGL are required for a limited list of products. Quantitative restrictions are applied to automobile sector products from MERCOSUR countries and to performance sports footwear from non-MERCOSUR countries. Nontariff barriers are not applied to intra-MERCOSUR trade. Argentina, however, applies a special regime to sugar imports (until December 14, 2000, to automobile imports as well) with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agreement on a common regime for this sector. Quantitative restrictions are applied to some textile products (un t il December 14, 2000, to automobiles as well) imported from the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina and the Re- pub l ic of Korea. The imports of secondhand clothing, tires, and some capital goods are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs There is no common regime in MERCOSUR for sugar. Argentina and MERCOSUR apply a CET to imports from the rest of the world that encom- passes all products. CET rates currently range from zero to 20%. A number of products were taxed with an additional 3% tariff un t il December 14, 2000, when the tariff was low- ered to 2.5%. Until that same date, there were three lists of exceptions to the CET: (1) the national list of 300 products; (2) the capital goods list with 14% CET un t il 2001; and (3) the computers and telecommunications list with a maximum CET of 16% un t il 2006. The import tariffs on some capital goods were reduced in some cases to 6% from 14%. Effective December 14, 2000, capital goods were taken out of the list of exceptions. The national list now covers 100 products and the import tar iffs on some capital goods may be reduced, in some cases, to 3% or, exceptionally, to zero percent. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for arms, sensitive goods, and war materials. There are quantitative restrictions on exports of protected animal species only. A 5% export duty is applied to untanned, pickled aplite and wet b lue leathers, and a 3.5% duty is applied to cotton, flax, groundnuts, soybeans, sunflower seeds, and turn ips. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 37 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Under the regu la t ions of the Na t ional Securities Commission (CNV), foreign and A rgen t ine issuers must meet the same requirements to make a public offering of securities in Argen- tina. Both must establish a permanent representative office and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. Foreign issuers must state whether the securities are also being offered to the pub l ic in the ir country of origin, and specify the in i t ial and periodic in fo rma t ion re- quirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the coun- try of origin properly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the requirements for these investors. The CNV may authorize foreign issuers on a case-by-case basis to submit on ly such informa t ion as they wou ld periodically subm it to the corresponding authority in the ir ju r isd ic t ion of origin. Effective November 16, 2000, issuers mak ing a pub l ic o f fe r ing of securities both locally and abroad must present simultaneously all necessary in fo rma t ion in Spanish to the entities that authorize the pub l ic offer ing and listing abroad to the CNV. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same cond i t ions apply as for the sale or issue of shares of a participating nature. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Control is applied only for commercial papers. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for pub l ic offerings. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for pub l ic offerings. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents No. Yes. No. For purchases of real estate in border areas, a foreign investor must seek prior approval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense. This l im i ta t ion exists for na t ional security reasons. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credit granted by financial intermediaries must be used in the country and must finance investment, production, commercialization, and consumption of goods and services for in te rnal demand or export. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are l im i ts on the max imum amount of securities a bank may hold from a particular issuer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 ARGENTINA Investment regulations Abroad by banks These controls are related only to the constitution of m i n im um l iqu id i ty requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits There are regulations on the m in imum capital held against market risks. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad There is a 25% l im it on investment trust portfolios, but this l im it does not apply to MERCOSUR. For diversification, and according to law, no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign sovereign, or in securities of for- eign corporations issued abroad. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally In the event that a trust's assets consist of the securities, a tender offer should be made in Argentina or abroad with a m in imum of 75% of the investment being made in assets issued and traded in Argentina. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Due to the implicit list associated with positions in different currencies other than the dollar, additional capital is required to cover those risks. Deposits and loans in those currencies are computed to build the position. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments December 14. The additional tax applied to a certain number of imported goods was reduced to 2.5% from 3%. December 14. A new import regime came into effect for capital goods, computing, telecommunication products, goods for large investment products, and imports related to secondhand production lines. Further, the MERCOSUR automotive Common Agree- ment was approved. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments November 16. Issuers mak ing a pub l ic offering of securities both locally and abroad were required to present simultaneously all necessary information in Spanish to the entities that authorize the pub l ic offer ing and listing abroad to the CNV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of A rmen ia is the Armenian dram. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the dram against the dollar is determined on the basis of exchange rates preva i l ing in the interbank market on the previous day. The off ic ial exchange rate is considered as a midpoint of the Central Bank of Armenia's (CBA) buying and selling rates. Foreign exchange transactions take place predom inan t ly in the interbank market in wh ich the CBA also participates (foreign exchange auctions are not held). The CBA in terven t ion in the foreign exchange market is l im i ted to the smoothing of exchange rate fluctuations. The off ic ial rate is used for accounting valuation of all foreign exchange transactions of all economic agents, and is regarded as a base rate for servicing transactions by the Treasury. Foreign exchange is freely bought and sold by enterprises and persons, w i thout restrictions, through banks, currency dealers, and licensed exchange bureaus that conduct cash transactions. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. However, for the t ime being, the forward exchange market in A rmen ia is still undeve loped, a l though some banks sign forward contracts in small amounts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents are prohibited from using foreign exchange as a means of payment w i th in Armenia. Payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements A rmen ia ma in ta ins agreements w i th Russia and Turkmen is tan. A rmen ia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Un ion (with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), wh ich pro- vides for the eventual establishment of a customs un ion, a payments un ion, cooperation on investment, indus t r ial development, and customs procedures. A rmen ia also jo ined the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payments Union of CIS member countries. A rmen ia is a member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), together w i th A lban ia, Azer- baijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. Bilat- eral free trade agreements have been signed w i th Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Ukra ine, though only the agreement with Russia is in operation. There is an arrangement w i th Turkmenistan for the importation of natural gas. In addition, bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inoperative. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ARMENIA Administration of control The CBA is the main body that formulates and administers exchange rate policy and that may issue foreign exchange regulations within Armenia. The CBA also has the overall responsibility for currency control, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE). In general, the MOFE exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CBA exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. Resident and nonresi- dent currency dealers, inc lud ing banks, may undertake foreign exchange transactions w i th- out restriction. There are no restrictions on current and capital movements unless otherwise specified by the CBA (in which case one mon th's notice is required). International security restrictions n.a. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Arrears to the Russian Federation were incurred du r ing 2000. A license is required for trading. Yes. Yes. Ind iv idua ls are authorized to transfer, deliver, and export currency and securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 without any restriction. Exports exceeding that amount are permitted through bank transfers. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs ARMENIA 41 No. Import licenses from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health are required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pesticides. Im- ports of weapons, m i l i tary equipment and parts, and explosives requ ire special authoriza- tion from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero and 10%; most imports are zero rated. Products imported from countries in the CIS are exempted. Tariffs for a few agr icu l tural products, textiles, and vehicles are zero, wh i le a 10% tariff applies for a variety of new materials and manufactured products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Presently, there is no repatriation requ iremen t; however, the CBA has the power, as specified by legislation, to impose such requirements on foreign exchange proceeds. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export licenses are required for medicines, w i ld animals and plants, and textile products exported to the EU. In addition, special government permission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuclear products, and technology w i th direct military applications. M in imum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign-produced goods therefrom remain in force. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 ARMENIA Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance with the constitution, nonresidents are not allowed to acquire land in Armenia. Controls on personal capital movements No. Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits An 8% reserve requ irement in local currency applies against deposits in either foreign or domestic currency. The reserve requirement is remunerated at an interest rate of 10% a year. Effective January 1, 2000, the limit on the overall foreign exchange position was lowered to 25% from 30%, wh i le the open position l im it in nonconvertible currencies was lowered to 5% from 10%. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2000 January 1. Arrears to the Russian Federation were incurred dur ing 2000. January 1. The l im it on the overall foreign exchange position of banks was lowered to 25% of their capital, while the open position limit in nonconvertible currencies was lowered to 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Aruba is the Aruban florin. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The florin is pegged to the dollar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals with local commercial banks w i th in margins of 0.002795% on either side of parity. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, ex- cept when settled in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Certain institutions are exempted from this rule. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements No. n.a. n.a. No. Administration of control The CBA administers foreign exchange control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 ARUBA Held abroad The opening of an account held abroad must be reported to the CBA. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Until January 1, 2000, when these accounts were liberalized, only balances up to Af. 200,000 were convertible. Un t il January 1, 2000, CBA approval was required for conversion of balances in excess of Af. 200,000. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of eggs may be subject to quotas, depending on the domestic supply situation. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in eight working days or credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account of which the CBA has been notified. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most restrictions on these transactions have been eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 45 Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments on all types of loans may be executed if a license has been obtained from the CBA to conclude the loan. As regards profits and dividends, documents should be sub- mitted to the CBA with respect to the amount involved. Authorization may proceed only if a license was obtained for the loan. In the case of depreciation of direct investments, a spe- cial license is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in eight working days or credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign ex- change bank or deposited in a foreign bank account of which the CBA has been no t if ied. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Transactions of less than Af. 200,000 a year for natural persons and Af. 500,000 a year for jur id ical persons (excluding commercial banks and institutional investors) are free. These ceilings are applicable not only to investments, but also to all capital transactions w i th nonresidents. This implies that a CBA license is only required for capital transactions in excess of these ceilings. Controls on capital and money market instruments Yes. On capital market securities There are controls on all these transactions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents A CBA license is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The CBA may require divestment, repatriation, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on personal capital movements Personal capital transactions must be settled through the banking system and foreign accounts of wh ich the CBA has been notified. Loans Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Un t il January 1, 2000, CBA approval was required for lending in domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 ARUBA Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally The l im i ts are 40% of the first Af. 10 m i l l ion of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the second Af. 10 m i l l ion; and 60% of the remaining liabilities. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2000 January 1, Balances on nonresident domestic currency accounts were allowed to be freely converted. January 7. Lending by banks to nonresidents in domestic currency was liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other coun- tries, inc lud ing K ir iba t i, Nauru, and Tuva lu. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market-determined. Au thor ized fore ign ex- change dealers may deal among themselves, w i th the ir customers, and w i th overseas coun- terparties at mu tua l ly negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any cur- rency w i th regard to trade- and non-trade-related transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. There is no off ic ial exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA pub l ishes an indica- tive rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and fu tures contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents All foreign exchange transactions in Australia must be undertaken through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions The RBA has responsibility for oversight of the foreign exchange market, in c lud ing the authorization of foreign exchange dealers. The Australian Transaction Reports and Ana ly- sis Center (AUSTRAC), a law enforcement agency, receives information on in te rna t ional transactions inc lud ing those in cash, which it can pass on to a number of other enforcement and governmental agencies. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, restrictions are placed on certain payments and transfers relating to the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), the UNITA movement in Angola, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exportation or importation of notes and coins totaling $A 10,000 or more must be reported to AUSTRAC. On exports Foreign currency Residents must purchase foreign currency from an authorized dealer. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency they brought into Australia. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 AUSTRALIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be made th rough an au thor ized dealer. Yes. Yes. Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be made through an authorized dealer. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Blocked accounts Only those accounts affected by UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota that applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weap- ons; certain chemicals and primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained ma in ly to meet health and safety require- ments; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Australia's membership in international commodity agreements. General tariffs have been reduced to 5%. On January 1, 2000, the tariff on passenger motor vehicles was reduced to 15% and it w i ll remain at that level un t il January 1, 2005. On Ju ly 1, 2000, the tariff on textiles, clothing, and footwear was also reduced to a max imum of 25% (currently, the range is 5% to 25%). The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods between Australia and New Zealand. The SPARTECA provides the Forum Island countries with nonreciprocal, duty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand. Trade between Papua New Gu inea and Aus- tralia is covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Au s t ra l ia and Papua New* Guinea. Developing countries receive tariff preferences on exports to Australia under the Aus t ra l ian System of Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries, w i th a un i fo rm preferential marg in of 5%. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of certain industries such as textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and f ru it preparations, tuna, and sugar, except from the least-developed countries and South Pacific Island Territories. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 49 State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure qua l i ty control, ad- minister trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These prohibitions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense materials; regulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual c iv i l ian and m i l i ta ry applications; maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and respond to specific market distortions abroad. Remaining controls on primary products apply ma in ly to food and agricultural products. Export controls apply to u ran ium and related nuclear materials ( inc lud ing u ran ium -bea r ing sands) to ensure compliance with Australia's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restric- tions also apply to certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unprocessed wood, inc lud ing wood chips. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provi- sions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply. Exports of cattle, sheep or goat meat, and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Commonwealth Department of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry (AFFA). If other countries impose quantitative restrictions on imports of meat or livestock, the AFFA may, in conjunction w i th industry, introduce measures to control Aus tra l ian exports to conform w i th those restrictions. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Aus tra l ian Wheat Board, and the Australian W ine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Australia has a complete ban on the export of merino ewes, genetic material, ova, and em- bryos to any country other than New Zealand. However, merino breeding rams purchased at designated export auctions and semen from rams inc luded in the National Register of Semen Export Donors may be exported. Sales are subject to an annual quota (curren t ly limited in total to 800 rams a year, and there is a provision for up to 100 rams to be placed on a semen donor register) and the AFFA's approval. No ram sold and nominated for the collection of semen for export may be phys ica l ly exported. There is no restriction on the export of merino rams or reproductive material to New Zealand. The above restrictions do not apply to mer ino rams intended for slaughter; however, the export of these rams is sub- ject to controls to ensure they do not enter breeding stocks. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 AUSTRALIA Controls on cap i tal transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, wh ich may be affected by laws and policies on inward direct investment, may require notification to the Aus tra l ian authorities. Foreign governments, the ir agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authorities of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Sub- ject to certain disclosure requirements, overseas banks may issue securities in the wholesale capital market in amounts of $A 500,000 or more. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments All foreign exchange transactions w i th in Australia ( inc lud ing foreign exchange derivatives) must be undertaken through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Prior authorization is required for (1) acquisitions by foreign investors of a substantial in- terest in an Australian business with total assets of more than $A 50 m i l l ion or where the proposal values the business over that amount (a substantial interest is seen as one that wou ld result in the shareholding of 15% or more by a single foreign interest or association or 40% or more by two or more unrelated foreign interests in an Australian corporation); (2) all investments in the banking, civil aviation, airports, shipping, media, telecommunica- tion, and real estate sectors, inc lud ing those below the $A 50 m i l l ion threshold, wh ich are subject to special restrictions; (3) direct investments by foreign governments or the ir agen- cies irrespective of size; and (4) proposals to establish new businesses where the total amount of the investment is $A 10 m i l l ion or more. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All acquisitions of residential real estate, inc lud ing vacant land, must be notified, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate for develop- ment are norma l ly approved, as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. Acqu is i t ion of developed nonresidential commercial real estate is exempt where the total va lue of the property is less than $A 50 m i l l ion. Approval is also usua l ly granted for acquisitions of vacant land for development, subject to certain conditions, and for acqu is i t ions of dwe l l ings ( inc lud ing condom in iums) direct from a developer, either "off the plan," wh i le under construction, or completed but never ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 51 occupied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwe l l ings are sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are normally approved only in cases invo lv ing temporary residents who acquire the property as their principal place of residence for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon de- parture. Foreign persons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia or those who purchase as jo int tenants with an Australian spouse are not required to seek approval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate ( inc lud ing condom in iums) w i th in a designated integrated tourist resort is exempt from authorization. Sale locally by nonresidents The sale of Australian real estate by residents or nonresidents is subject to the above conditions. Controls on personal capital movements Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The transfer may be subject to approval of the authorities in cases where the g i ft invo lves a foreign person a t ta in ing an interest in Australian urban land. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Banks are sub ject to prudential requirements, e.g., l iqu id i ty management, credit concentration. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Foreign persons and their associates seeking to acquire a 15% or larger share in an authorized deposit-taking institution must obtain the Treasurer's pr ior approval. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require that, to be a participating organization of the Australian Stock Exchange, a majority of the directors of a brokerage must be Aus- tralian residents. This rule does not prohibit foreigners from owning a brokerage. Deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions and pension funds are supervised by the Aus tra l ian Pruden t ial Regulation Authority, an entity separate from the RBA. Imports and import payments January 1. The tariff on passenger motor vehicles was reduced to 15%. July 1. The tar iff on textiles, clothing, and footwear was reduced to a m a x im um of 25%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Austria is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Austrian sch i l l ing un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the sch i l l ing and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Austria participates in a currency union (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Be lg ium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external ex- change rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the sch i l l ing is set at S 13.7603 per €1. The ECB has the right to in tervene to smooth out f luc- tuations in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Operative Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free euro accounts. There are no bilateral payment agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, which include provisions on transfers between the signatories. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq are in force. The EU restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted on November 14, 2000, w i th the exception of specifically targeted persons. In add i t ion, restrictions apply to payments and transfers to Angola, Myanmar, and the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan). Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Resident Accounts 53 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements . for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These are accounts affected by UN sanctions against Angola, Iraq, Myanmar, and the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) and, by virtue of EU regulations, sanctions against certain ind iv idual citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affa irs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agr icu l tural products. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regulations based on the com- mon commercial policy, i.e., import restrictions for industrial products in the textile and clothing sectors and statistical surveillance for products falling under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regulations based on current EU law with regard to Ch ina for imports of some consumer products. Positive list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Austria applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Licenses for exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 AUSTRIA trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment In some cases, reporting requirements to the Austrian National Bank exist. No. No. In the auditing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Austrian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Liquid asset requirements L iqu id asset requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The net amount of an open foreign exchange position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. The euro is not considered a foreign currency. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 55 Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts November 14. Restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted, with the exception of specifically targeted individuals. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan manat. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the manat is determined as a weighted average of the telephone, auc- tion, and interbank markets. The open interbank exchange market has the dom inant weight. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU are effected through correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these countries or through correspondent accounts of the respective central banks. Use of foreign exchange among residents In accordance w i th current legislation, settlements among residents may be effected in foreign currencies on ly w i th a license issued by the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB). Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Yes. Azerbaijan is a member of the Payment Un ion of the CIS countries, wh ich has become inoperative. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Adm in istrat ion of control The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency operations, and administers official gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open foreign exchange accounts abroad; for regulating foreign exchange operations, inc lud ing imple- menting and monitoring compliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. The Ministry of Trade regulates foreign trade, wh i le the Customs Code regulates the organization and operation of customs. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. n.a. Controls are administered by the cabinet of ministries jointly with the ANB. Controls on external trade A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation and importation of foreign banknotes are regulated by the ANB and the customs agencies. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 57 No more than manat 50,000 in banknotes may be taken out of the country, on the condition that they be returned. Residents are allowed to export the amount of currency they brought in p lus $10,000, or the equivalent, w i thout any documentation. Nonresidents are allowed to export the amount they brought in p lus $1,000, or the equivalent, without any documentation. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No declaration of the origin of foreign exchange is required for ind iv idua ls, who may transfer freely foreign exchange held in these accounts to the ir close relatives up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 and, upon authorization, larger amounts, or may convert it freely into domestic currency. Resident enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad, subject to authorization by the ANB. Enterprises are obliged to repatriate the foreign ex- change held in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). There is no regulation for individuals who open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad. Yes. n.a. Na tural and ju r id ical persons may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks, and authorized banks may also purchase foreign exchange in these markets on their own account, in accordance with the regulations of the ANB. These regulations do not set any l im i t. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manat. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manat and use them for domestic transactions, in accordance with instructions issued by the ANB. Convertible into foreign currency The same regulations apply as for resident accounts. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import payments of more than 180 days prior to the delivery of goods are not allowed. Prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are l im i t ed to the equ iva lent of $10,000. Subject to authorization of the ANB, th is amount may exceed the ind ica t ive l im i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 AZERBAIJAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Prepayments by bank transfers in excess of $10,000 or its equ iva lent requ ire either an LC or the authorization of the ANB. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs are un i f ied at 15% for most goods and for imports from all countries. Capital and input goods are subject to tariff rates of zero or 5%. A customs fee of 0.15% is levied on imports from all sources. Effective January 1, 2000, new tariff bands of 3% and 10% were introduced, increasing the number of bands from three to five, and the range of goods in the zero rate band was widened. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports w i th in 180 days and trans- fer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan w i th in 10 days of receipt, unless specifically exempted by the government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes All export operations must be secured by a 100% prepayment or an irrevocable LC. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Resident ind iv idua ls are allowed to purchase noncash foreign exchange for transfer abroad to meet the costs of bona fide current international transactions. Any amount may be paid without limitation, on the basis of documents confirming that trade-related costs actually have been incurred. General l im i ta t ions apply to advance payments. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test The ind ica t ive l im it is the equ iva lent of $10,000. This l im it may be exceeded on the basis of an expense estimate. The l im it is the equivalent of $10,000 for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and fam i ly maintenance and a l imony. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 59 Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. The indicative l im it for subscriptions and membership fees varies from $1,000 to $5,000, or the equivalents, a year. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months and transferred to a licensed bank w i th in 10 days of receipt. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls, except for banks that sell their shares to nonresidents w i th in the quota specified by the ANB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents This process is regulated by the government in coordination w i th the ANB by es tab l ish ing quotas and trading authorization procedures. Purchase abroad by residents The transfer of funds is permitted with the approval of the ANB. Sale or issue abroad by residents Regulated by the laws on joint-stock companies, securities, and stock exchanges, and by in-house ins truc t ion of the ANB. Sale is ma in ly by pr ior subscription; an organized market is just emerging. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These ins t rumen ts are cu r ren t ly not available, and legislation concerning der iva t ives has not been fo rmu la ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 AZERBAIJAN Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Subject to authorization by the ANB. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires ANB authorization. Inward direct investment Profits may be reinvested in local currency held in Azerbaijan or converted into foreign currency and transferred without controls. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or jo int ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30% are entitled to a two-year holiday on profit taxes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted, but a court ru l ing is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Subject to presentation of satisfactory documents and based on a court ru l ing. Transfer abroad by emigrants Subject to authorization by the ANB. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Subject to authorization by the ANB. Yes. Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements There is a 10% reserve requirement on deposit accounts. Liquid asset requirements Liquid assets must be equal to at least 30% of total liabilities. Credit controls These controls are in the form of different classifications and provisions. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for deposit accounts in foreign exchange. Credit controls These controls are in the form of different classifications and provisions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 61 Investment regulations The Law on Banks and Banking grants the ANB the right to set quotas for participation in banks' equity capital by foreign investors. This same law establishes regulations governing the investment of funds in shares of other banks, nonbank enterprises, institutions, and organizations. In banks by nonresidents Subject to authorization by the ANB. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The regulations and procedures governing participation by nonresidents in the securities market are determined in accordance with the Azerbaijan Repub l ic Law on Securities and by the Committee on Securities under the president of Azerbaijan. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad n.r. Other controls imposed by securities laws In accordance with the Azerbaijan Republic Law on Securities, the circulation of securities of foreign issuers in Azerbaijan is regulated by the Committee on Securities. Securities of issuers registered in Azerbaijan may be placed outside Azerbaijan with the authorization of that same body. Imports and import payments January 1. New tariff bands of 3% and 10% were introduced, increasing the number of bands from three to five, and the range of goods in the zero rate band was w idened. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian dollar. Commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, BS250, B$ 1,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver are legal tender but do not circulate. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently w i th the Bahamian do l lar. In addition to the official exchange market, there is a market in which investment currency may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank of The Bahamas (CBB); the current premium bid and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct investments outside The Bahamas. In certain circumstances, the CBB may also per- mit residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such outward investments. The Bahamian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at par. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th the buy ing rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5% above the buy ing rate. The CBB deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50% buying and 0.75% selling per US$1, and 0.50% buying or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to all outward remittances. No. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, how- ever, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu tu re requirements with- out the CBB's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward w i th nonresidents without prior approval from the CBB. Commercial banks may execute for- ward deals among themselves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all for- ward cover arrangements that the ir open spot or forward position does not exceed the equ iva lent of B$500,000 long or short. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territo- ries. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Foreign currencies comprise all cur- rencies other than the Bahamian dollar. n.a. n.a. The Bahamas is a member of the CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 63 Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including payments for imports up to B$ 100,000; approval authority for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency No. No. Residents, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bu l l ion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the CBB, meet their current industrial requirements. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a li- cense and are duty free, although a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax payable to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. A traveler may export banknotes up to B$200. Bahamian travelers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. Importation is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts With the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denomi- nated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not g a in fu l ly employed in The Bahamas. Persons of a foreign nationality who have been granted temporary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. External accounts in Baha- mian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts w i th the approval of the CBB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 THE BAHAMAS Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The accounts of residents emigrating from The Bahamas who are redesignated upon depar- ture as nonresidents are blocked for amounts in excess of B$25,000 for a period of four years. Balances on blocked accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after that t ime or through the Investment Currency Market at any time; they may also be invested with the approval of the CBB in certain resident-held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for imports exceeding B$ 100,000, irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where th is au tho r i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is norma l ly g iven au toma t ica l ly upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled for social, human i ta r ian, or health reasons. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. All other goods may be imported without a license. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tariff rate on most goods is 42%, and the aver- age tariff rate is 35%. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no import duty on certain tourist-related goods, but these goods are subject to stamp du t ies rang ing from 8% to 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached the ir destination or w i th in six months of shipment; a l terna t ive ly, ex- port proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are not requ ired, except for crawfish, conch, and arms and amm u n i t i o n. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no restrictions on current payments. However, there are l im i ts on the approval authority delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may make pay- ments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life insurance prem iums, w i th in specified l im i t s. CBB approval is required for payments in excess of those l im i ts or for categories of payments not delegated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 65 Trade-related payments Prior approval For un load ing and storage costs and commissions, CBB approval is required for transactions over B$3,000 and B$6,000, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Information is not available for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer. Yes. Under delegated authority, the limits for tourist travel are B$ 1,000 a person above the age of 18 years and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a tr ip. For business or profes- sional travel, the limit is B$ 10,000 a person a year. The allowance for tourist travel ex- cludes the cost of fares and travel services, wh ich are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused bal- ance must be surrendered w i th in a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one week of returning to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Under delegated authority, residents are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance of B$3,000 a person a trip for study-related costs. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance is granted by the CBB without a limit. Apart from a B$l,000 cash allowance, authorized dealers may approve all medical payments to doctors or medical establishments. Yes. The l im it is 50% of wages and salaries. If commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. Approval is required for residents to hold an international credit card, which may not be used to pay for l i fe insurance premiums and capital items. There is prior approval for consulting and legal fees. Under delegated authority, the l im it for subscription and membership fees is B$ 1,000, and that for consulting and legal fees is B$3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test An indicative l im it is applied to consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect all proceeds without delay. Surrender requirements All foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer without delay. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 THE BAHAMAS Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident- owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, which are encouraged, are required to go through the exchange control approval process, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may requ ire authorization. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals generally reflects the government's economic and inves tment policy gu ide l ines. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities w i th o f f ic ial exchange, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment cur- rency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents requ ire permission from the CBB and are norma l ly transacted through authorized agents, who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions without any fu r ther approval from the CBB. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Baha- mas must be held by, or to the order of, an authorized agent. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the CBB by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregis- tered securities may be offered for sale at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian dollar-denominated securities must fund the acqu is i t ion of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts The same regulations apply as for shares or securities of a participating nature. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for shares or securities of a participating nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or securities of a participating nature. A resident company who l ly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Bahamian dollars, although approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency bor- rowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to residents' interest in the eq- uity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permis- sion to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled directly or ind i rec t ly by nonresidents. How- ever, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manu- factured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents for either fixed or work ing capital. Instead, they must provide all the ir f inanc ing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment THE BAHAMAS 67 Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment w i ll at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to individual approval from the CBB, by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward direct investment CBB approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents require the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and ap- proval is limited to one property a family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the offi- cial foreign exchange market. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit from the Investments Board. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase property for residential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Investments Board on completion of the transaction. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 THE BAHAMAS Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Residents are not allowed to remit funds for gaming purposes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Prior exchange control approval is required if local real estate property is offered as a security. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is B$500,000 for a long or short position. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. No. Other controls imposed by securities laws In the securities market, a Mutual Funds Act and regulation that provides for licensing of Mutual Funds Administrators and Registration of Mu tual Funds is enforced. The Securities Industry Act provides for the Securities Commission to regulate the stock exchange and stock exchange operations. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain d ina r. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control The dinar has a fixed relationship to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.47619 per SDR 1. The exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR may be set w i th in margins of ±7.25% of th is fixed relationship. In practice, however, the d inar has maintained a stable relationship w i th the dollar, the intervention currency. The m idd le rate of the d inar for the do l lar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides da i ly recommended rates to banks for amounts up to BD 1,000 in dollars, deutsche mark, and pounds sterling based on the latest available dollar rates against those currencies. The BMA does not deal w i th the pub l ic. In the ir dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for dollars, deutsche mark, and pounds sterling, but they are authorized to charge a com- mission of 2% (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's dollar rates and the New York market rates against the dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of banks' monthly returns. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. n.a. n.a. No. There is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. Yes. No. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BAHRAIN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10% customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain BMA approval before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs If such documents are not available, imported goods may be released with a written promise to subm it the documents at a later date. Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the GCC, provided that the quality and prices of these goods are w i th in specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bahrain and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). The rates of customs tariffs range between 5% and 10% on most commodities, but the rate is 15% on vehicles (reduced from 20% on June 30, 2000); 20% on launches and yachts; 100% on tobacco; and 125% on alcoholic beverages. On January 2, 2000, the Bahrain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 71 government eliminated the 5% customs duty on foodstuffs and cut the tariffs on consumer goods to 7.5% from 10%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles from Israel are prohibited. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. GCC nationals are allowed to purchase local stocks. Non-GCC nationals are allowed to purchase up to 49% of the stocks of an enterprise. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. GCC nationals are allowed to own 100% of the shares of domestic enterprises, and non- GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% of offshore, closed joint-stock, and l im i ted l iab i l i ty companies; and 49% in other companies, with the exception of a few strategic sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BAHRAIN Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Except for GCC nationals, the purchase of real estate by nonresidents is generally prohib- ited. However, foreign corporations established in Bahrain may purchase the ir own prop- erty, and foreigners with a long residency in Bahrain may be granted the right to purchase property on a case-by-case basis. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits without exchange control restrictions. Licensed offshore bank ing un i ts may en- gage in transactions w i th nonresidents freely, although transactions w i th residents are not normally permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are allowed to set their own individual limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 2. The 5% customs duty on foodstuffs was eliminated, and the tariff on consumer goods was decreased to 7.5% from 10%. June 30. The rate of customs tariffs on vehicles was reduced to 15% from 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 11, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The taka was pegged to a weighted currency basket of Bangladesh's major trading partners. Effective March 12, 2000, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) announces a buying-selling rate band for the dollar against the taka for its transactions with authorized dealer (AD) banks. Trends of the real effective exchange rate of the taka against a trade-weighted basket of currencies of major trade partners, as well as of other major external and internal sector indicators, are tracked to monitor the external competitiveness of the exchange rate. ADs set their own buy ing and selling rates for the dollar and other currencies, based on cross rates in interna- tional markets. Effective December 4, 2000, the BB discontinued the practice of selling and buy ing dollars from ADs at preannounced rates. No. No. Forward contracts are available from authorized banks, covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments, and up to three months of remittances of surplus collection from foreign shipping companies and airlines. Authorized banks are permitted to retain working balances with their foreign correspondents. Currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are effected against underlying approved commercial transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BB does not transact in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, through non- resident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries are required to be effected through the ACU in terms of the AMU (equivalent in value to the dollar). Payments for imports may be made to any country (w i th the exception of countries from which importa- tion is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely converti- ble foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements n.a. n.a. Operative There are operative bilateral payment arrangements w i th some countries. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BANGLADESH Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control In t e rna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Bangladesh is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the BB in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the MOF. Banks are issued licenses as ADs in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Regis- tered importers may make the ir imports in terms of the IPO against LCs. LC authorization fo rms (LCAFs) are issued by ADs and do not require a separate import license. On the basis of a UN Security Counc il resolution, all settlements w i th Iraq, the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghan is tan), and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia, as we ll as imports of d iamonds from Sierra Leone, are proh ib i ted. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or s i lver ornaments ( in c lud ing coins) and jewe lry, but there is a p roh ib i t ion on the ho ld ing of gold and s i lver in all other forms except by licensed indus tr ia l is ts or dentists. The importation and exportation of gold and s i lver require special permission. However, adu lt fema le travelers are free to br ing in or take out any amount of gold jewe lry w i thout p r ior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and s i lver for the export/manufacture of jewe l ry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. A resident or a nonresident may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry or up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 brought in without declaration. They may also, w i thout obtaining the approval of the BB, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into con- ver t ib le foreign currencies at the time of their departure. Residents may take out foreign currency and trave ler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 brought in w i thout declaration when re tu rn ing from a p rev ious v i s it abroad. The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is proh ib i ted. Foreign currency trave ler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to the equ iva lent of $5,000, but larger amounts should be declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Bangladesh na t iona ls and persons of Bangladesh or ig in who are work ing abroad are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in deutsche marks, dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) remittances in conver t ib le currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of conver t ib le currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other fore ign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) trans- fers from nonres ident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 75 without restriction, subject to reporting to the BB. Effective February 22, 2000, exporters of computer data entry and software services may retain 40% of their foreign exchange earnings. Residents returning from abroad may bring in any amount of foreign currency and may ma in ta in a resident foreign currency deposit account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or comm iss ions arising from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in deutsche marks, dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and Japanese yen. Exporters and local jo in t-ven ture f i rms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplomatic missions in Bangladesh, the ir expatriates, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Approval is required to open these accounts. Residents who opened an account abroad when residing abroad may ma in ta in it after returning to Bangladesh. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Bangladesh nationals res id ing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and f i rms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial institutions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government ins t i tu t ions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in deutsche marks, dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited in in i t ial m in imum amounts equ iva lent to $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in convertible currencies and transfers from ex- isting foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The accounts bear interest if their terms range from one month to one year. Bangladesh na t ion- als may maintain a foreign currency account abroad wh i le residing abroad and may con- t inue to hold the account after returning to Bangladesh. The balance, inc lud ing interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, wh ich are freely convertible into taka, must be reported mon th ly by banks to the BB. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or ma in ta in a foreign cur- rency deposit account wh i le abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit ac- count with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. All nonresident accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in wh ich the account holder is a permanent resident (the accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts). Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be opened by ADs w i thout pr ior approval from the BB for Bangladesh nationals and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign f irms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account holder's absence by ADs without prior approval from the BB. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout pr ior approval from the BB, but are subject to ex post recording. Foreign missions and embassies, the ir expatriate personnel, foreign a i r l ine and s h i p p i ng companies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest- bearing accounts, but the interest earned may be disbursed on ly in local currency. All d ip loma t ic missions operating in Bangladesh, the ir d ip loma t ic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, in terna t ional nonprof it organizations ( i n c l u d i ng char i tab le organizations func t ion ing in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and the ir expatriate employees, UN ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BANGLADESH organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status) are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely permitted. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Nonresident taka accounts of Bangladesh nationals may be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective December 11, 2000, the BB imposed a 50% m i n im um margin requ i rement for the opening of LCs against imports of commercial goods. On the same date, a 30% margin requirement imposed on imports of indus tr ial goods was imposed; it was rescinded on December 13, 2000. Advance payments for imports require approval from the BB, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required for all imports, with a few exceptions. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable LCs. However, perishable food items not exceeding $7,500 in value a consignment may be imported overland w i thout LCs; capital machinery and industrial raw materials may also be imported without LCs. Recognized export-oriented units operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of up to four months' requirements of the ir raw and packing materials by establishing import LCs w i thout reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (either on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or up to 180 days on a usance basis) against export LCs received by them. ADs may establish LCs on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of the BB, subject to certain conditions. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by ADs when payments are due. All importers ( inc lud ing all government departments, w i th the exception of the M in is t ry of Defense) are required to obtain LCAFs for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by AD banks without an import license. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and imports transported on Israeli flag vessels are prohibited. Goods must be shipped w i th in 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts, and 9 months in the case of all other items. Items not specified in the control list of the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The controlled list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for public safety, religious, environmental, and social reasons, or because similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes (7 of wh ich are banned and 19 restricted). Open general licenses All items not on the control list are freely importable by registered importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses w i th quotas BANGLADESH 77 Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by indus tr ial consumers are gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various indus tr ies d u r i ng each import program period established by the Board of Investment (BOI). Firms in the indus tr ial sector are given an entitlement to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued w i th LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to indus tr ial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred w i thout prior approval. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are f ive tariff bands: zero, 5%, 15%, 25%, and 37.5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses W i th quotas Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in four months of shipment un less otherwise allowed by the BB. Exporters are permitted to retain 7.5% of the proceeds of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of the proceeds from other exports; they may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad; participation in trade fairs and seminars; and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. They may also be used to set up offices abroad without prior permission from the BB. Jo int ven- tures, other than in the garment industry, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 80% of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and to place the rema in ing 20% in a bank account in domestic currency. n.a. Yes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, wh i le others are restricted to ensure the supp ly of the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all restricted items. Quotas are imposed on garment exports by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports on the basis of the prev ious year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use in order to reallocate un f i l l ed quotas. Export taxes Exports of ju te are taxed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. There are controls on adm in is tra t ive expenses and commissions. For un load ing and storage costs, prior approval is required. Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad for commissions w i thout pr ior approval from the BB. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit d iv idends to nonresident shareholders w i thout the pr ior approval of the BB on receipt of applications from the companies concerned; applica- t ions must be supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolution declaring d iv idends out of profits derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax l iab i l i t ies are covered. Authorized dealers may remit profits of foreign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other f inanc ial ins t i tu- tions operating in Bangladesh to their head office on receipt of applications supported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BANGLADESH Prior approval Quantitative limits No approval is required if loan agreements have been cleared by the BOI. Information is not available for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a year; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $1,000 a person a year. For new ex- porters, the indicative l im it for business travel is $6,000, wh i le established exporters are permitted to use balances he ld under the Export Retention Scheme (7.5% of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manufacturers producing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equ iva lent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the va lue of imports, respectively. There is an annual ce i l ing of $5,000 in both cases. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign currency for education is made available up to the cost of tu i t ion and l i v i ng ex- penses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. No prior permission is re- qu ired for the remittance of fees for undergraduate, postgraduate, and some professional courses. Foreign exchange is available for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a certificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level based on preva i l ing prices. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions. Up to $10,000 may be obtained for medical costs without prior approval. Larger amounts are subject to the approval of the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for foreign exchange for studies abroad and for fam i ly maintenance are accepted upon verification of their bona fide nature. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign nationals may freely remit up to 50% of net salary in connection w i th service con- tracts approved by the government. The entire amount of the ir leave salaries and savings may also be freely remitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval General approval is given for the use by exporters against the foreign exchange retention en t i t lement and for the use against the travel allowance by other residents. Credit cards may be used up to the amounts authorized for travel allowance and up to balances held in foreign currency deposit accounts. No prior permission is required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indu s t r ial enterprises produc ing for local markets may remit up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the previous year's tax return for the purpose of tra in ing and consultancy. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5% of the proceeds and to use retained earn- ings for bona fide business purposes. Exporters of computer data entry and software ser- vices are entitled to retain up to 40% of their proceeds in foreign exchange. Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in non- resident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 79 ing into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an AD w i th in one mon th of the date of acquisition. However, re tu rn ing residents may keep, in fo re ign cur- rency accounts opened in their names, foreign exchange brought in at the t ime of re turn from abroad, prov ided that the amount does not represent proceeds from exports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Residents may retain up to $5,000 brought into the country w i thout declaration. Foreign nationals res id ing in Bangladesh con t inuous ly for more than six months are required to surrender w i t h in one mon th of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing the ir earn ings w i th re- spect to business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered wh i le in Bangladesh. Restrictions on use of funds Foreign exchange re ta inab le as above may be used for travel abroad or bona f ide bus iness purposes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may buy Bangladesh secur i t ies th rough stock exchanges against payment in free ly conver t ib le currency remitted from abroad through bank ing channe ls. Proceeds from sales, inc lud ing capital gains and d iv idends earned on securities purchased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in freely conver t ib le currency. Non res iden ts may not issue securities in Bangladesh. On money market ins t rumen ts These transactions are not a l lowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not a l lowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commis- sion. If an in s t rum ent is denom ina ted in fore ign currency, pr ior BB approval is requ i red. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not a l lowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Authorized dealer banks may obtain hedging abroad against exchange rate r isks on under- ly ing trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export payments deferred for more than 120 days require BB authorization. To residents from nonresidents Deferred import paymen ts are permitted for up to 360 days for capital mach ine ry and for up to 180 days for indu s t r ial raw materials. Pr iva te indus t r ial un i ts may borrow f u n ds from abroad w i th the approval of the BOI. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in specific cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BANGLADESH To residents from nonresidents ADs (i.e., commercial banks) may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Banks may issue guarantees/sureties in favor of nonresidents in relation to pe rm i s s ib le current transactions on behalf of residents. Receipt of guarantees/sureties by residents from abroad requires f u ll disclosure of the unde r ly ing transaction. All outward transfers of capital requ ire approval, wh ich is spar ing ly granted for resident- owned capital. Investments, except in the industrial sector, requ ire approval. The Foreign Pr iva te Inves t- ment (Promotion and Protection) Act provides for the protection and equ i tab le treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and na t iona l i- zation, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to n ine years, depending on the location. Requests for repatriation of the proceeds from l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tment (in un l is ted companies) are subject to prior scrutiny of the BB. Effec t ive February 1, 2001, the BB allowed the repatriation of proceeds from d is inves tment of nonresidents' equ i ty invest- ments in unlisted pub l ic l im i ted companies and in private l im i ted companies. When a non- resident liquidates the investment through a sale to a resident investor, the net asset va lue of the shares of the company is used as the basis for a l low ing the repatriation of proceeds. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident w i th funds from abroad are allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Repatriation of sales proceeds are subject to pr ior approval by the BB, wh i ch is not norma l ly granted. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are not allowed, except for industrial enterprises borrow ing according to BOI guidelines/approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of t i t le to nonresidents by way of inheritances is not restricted, but income from, and sale proceeds of, such assets are norma l ly not transferable abroad and are required to be used locally w i th pr ior authorization from the BB. A resident Bangladesh national requires the prior approval of the government of Bangla- desh for receiving any gift/endowment from a foreign donor. Inheritances are to be dis- closed to the BB. Net current income from estates inher i ted abroad are to be repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts These transactions are normally not allowed, except for repayments on borrowing for indus tr ial investments according to BOI guidelines. Transfer of assets These transactions are not allowed, except for movable personal effects. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are not allowed, except for normal travel allowance perm iss ib le to residents. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions are permitted, subject to the declaration requ i rement in respect of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 81 Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited in Bangladesh. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The same regulations apply as for financial credits. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of these accounts is subject to notification to the BB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not allowed, except with prior BB approval and in specific cases. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Lending is subject to prior approval by the BB. Effective March 12, 2000, ADs are permit- ted to use up to 50% of noninterest foreign currency term deposit balances for (1) lending to exporters for settlement of back-to-back sight LCs imports of inputs, and (2) for dis- counting usance bills of wholly foreign owned (type "A") EPZ units against input supplies to exporters. Purchases are subject to prior approval by the BB. Banks are required to maintain interest rates on foreign currency deposits in line with inter- national market rates. Effective January 1, 2001, ADs were authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by their correspondent banks from other ACU member countries. Effective January 1, 2001, ADs are authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by their correspondent banks from other ACU member countries. Open foreign exchange position limits The BB places limits on each authorized dealer's net open position, not to exceed 12.5% of capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Domestic institutional investors may not acquire investment assets abroad, Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts December 4. The BB discontinued the practice of selling and buying dollars from ADs at preannounced rates. February 22. Exporters of computer data entry and software services were allowed to retain 40% of their foreign exchange earnings. Imports and import payments December 11. The BB imposed a 50% m in imum margin requirement for the opening of LCs against imports of commercial goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BANGLADESH Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Capital transactions Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment March 12. ADs are permitted to use up to 50% of noninterest foreign currency term deposit balances for (1) lending to exporters for settlement of back-to-back sight LCs imports of inputs, and (2) for discounting usance b i l ls of who l ly foreign owned (type "A") EPZ un i ts against input supplies to exporters. Changes During 2001 February 1. The BB allowed the repatriation of proceeds from disinvestment of non- residents' equity investments in unlisted pub l ic limited companies and in private l im i ted companies. When a nonresident liquidates the investment through a sale to a resident in- vestor, the net asset value of the shares of the company is used as the basis for a l low ing the repatriation of proceeds. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L ADs were authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by the ir correspondent banks from other ACU member countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: November 3, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados dollar. Gold coins w i th face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDSS200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in l im i ted c ircu la t ion. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control The Barbados do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of the ir cross-rate relationships to the U.S. do l lar. The quoted rates in c lude comm iss ion charges of 0.125% buy ing and 1.75% se l l ing against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875% buy ing and 1.8125% se l l ing against the Canadian do l lar, euro, and pound s ter l ing. Certain businesses are allowed to change foreign currency. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) periodically obtains forward cover in the interna- t ional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central governmen t's exchange risks associated w i th foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the in terna t ional markets. The CBB and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. do l lars, wh i le commercial banks freely switch between nonregional currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements w i th resi- dents of CARICOM countries other than Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM country. Settlements w i th residents of Jamaica, Sur iname, and Tr in idad and Tobago may be made in U.S. dollars. Re ta il ou t le ts are pe rm i t- ted to issue change in the same foreign currency in wh ich purchases were made. n.a. n.a. Yes. Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under clearing arrangements w i th regional monetary authorities, the CBB cu r ren t ly sells on ly three CARICOM coun try currencies: the Bahamian dollar, the Eastern Caribbean do l lar, and the Belize dollar. The T r in idad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jamaica do l la rs float against the U.S. do l lar, and the CBB sets ind ica t ive se l l ing rates based on rates supp l ied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to government transactions. Exchange control applies to all countries, except those in the OECS, and is adm in is te red by the CBB, wh ich delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve no rmal 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 BARBADOS International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency import payments and foreign exchange for cash gifts. Further au thor i ty is delegated to commercial banks in respect of current account transactions ranging from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, Consumer Affa irs and Business Development (MCCABD). The authority to approve payments to OECS countries is delegated to ADs. No. No. Residents, other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and indu s t r ial users, are not pe rm i t ted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins for num i sm a t ic purposes. Any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an AD, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its re ten t ion. The importation of gold by residents is perm i t ted for indu s t r i al purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the MCCABD. Ex- change control permission is required to export gold. Travelers may take out up to BDS$500. Travelers may take out up to the equ iva lent of BDS$ 1,000. Nonres ident v is i to rs may export freely any foreign currency they prev ious ly brought in. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Subject to specific conditions under delegated authority, ADs may ma in ta in foreign cur- rency accounts in the names of ind iv idua ls and companies resident in Barbados. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under conditions established at the t ime the account is opened. Other credits and deb i ts requ ire ind iv idu al approval. However, where authority has not been delegated to ADs, the permis- sion of the CBB is requ i red. Approval is g iven on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and paymen ts in fore ign currency. Held abroad These accounts are allowed, but permission of the CBB is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Permission of the CBB is requ i red. Permission of the CBB is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The same regulations apply as for resident accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, w i th transfers from other external accounts, w i th bank interest, and w i th payments by residents for wh i ch the CBB has g iven general or specific permission. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes and for any other payment covered by delegated au tho r i ty to ADs. Other debits and any overdrafts requ ire ind iv idual approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 85 Convertible into foreign currency Balances on external accounts are convertible. Approval required Blocked accounts Nonres ident holders of foreign currency accounts are not required to obtain central bank approval to remit funds abroad when the funds were not the result of payment for trade or nontrade transactions. The CBB may require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ine l ig ib le for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be w i th- drawn w i thout approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. ADs may release foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of BDS$250,000 (c . i . f) for advance payments for imports into Barbados. Other advance paymen ts requ ire the pr ior approval of the CBB. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to ADs; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Certain imports require ind iv idual licenses. Some items on the import-licensing l ist may be freely imported throughout the year, wh i le others are subject to temporary restrictions (par- t icu lar ly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). I n d i v i d u al licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago whether the goods are being im- ported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM coun tr ies in 22 agricultural commodities. Not all goods that are subject to licensing are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions or import surcharges. Customs duties correspond to the CET of CARICOM, wh ich is in the range of 5-20%. A temporary surtax of 75% on some imports that previously had been subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions was removed, effective Apr il 1, 2000. A VAT of 15% is levied. On January 1, 2000, the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET came into effect. On Ap r il 1, 2000, non tar iff barriers on prepared meats, detergents, and T-shirts were replaced w i th tar iffs rang ing from 20% to over 200%. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any coun try, i n c l u d i ng rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported w i thout license. Yes. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the Un i ted States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BARBADOS Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the quantitative limits. For freight and insurance, the l im it is BDS$250,000 a transaction, inc lud ing insurance payments and premiums, as long as the amount is approved for payment by the Supervisor of Insurance. The same l im it is applied for unloading and storage costs and adm in is tra t ive expenses; the l im it for commissions is BDS$ 100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Information is not available on the payment of amortization loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limit for interest payments is BDS$50,000 a year for individuals. For payments of profits and dividends, approval is required for amounts above BDS$250,000, except for listed companies from the CARICOM region on the securities exchange of Barbados, where the l im it is BDS$2 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im i ts are BDS$7,500 a person a calendar year for private travel, and BDS$750 a day for business travel, up to BDS$50,000 a person a calendar year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the l im i t. The l im i ts are as follows: for medical costs, BDS$100,000 a year; for studies abroad, BDS$50,000 a person a year; for cash gifts, BDS$5,000; and for alimony and other maintenance expenses, BDS$50,000. Nonresidents may have their pensions remitted to them wh i le residing outside Barbados. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are allowed to remit amounts to cover commitments wh i le employed in Barbados. Yes. Yes. The l im i ts are the same as for travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the limit. The l im it for subscriptions and membership fees is BDS$50,000 a person a year, and, for consulting and legal fees, BOSS 100,000 for each nonresident beneficiary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 87 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to ADs. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require ex- change control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for the ir purchase. These purchases requ ire exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Barbados except for regional securities purchased through the Securities Exchange of Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an AD. Sale or issue abroad by residents Exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature, Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Direct inves tmen ts requ ire exchange control approval. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions L iqu ida t ion of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the va l id i ty of the remittance is submitted, all l iab i l i t ies related to the investment have been discharged, and the o r ig inal inves tment was registered w i th the CBB. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases requ i re exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 BARBADOS Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency f inanc ing is not ordinarily permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Proceeds from the realization of such investments equ iva lent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of th is amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated annual rate of return on the original foreign investment as follows: for the last f ive years, at 8%; for the five years immediately preceding the last f ive years, at 5%; and for any period preceding the last 10 years, at 4%. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to remittances of BDS$30,000 a year. Loans Exchange control permission is required for the granting or receiving of loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The annual l im it is BDS$5,000 for gifts and BDS$30,000 for endowments, inheritances, and legacies. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants The limit is BDS$ 100,000. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Nonresidents may take out w inn ings. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the CBB. ADs may assume short-term l iab i l i ty positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts must be maintained with overseas correspondent banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Exchange control permission is required, Investment in local securities requires CBB approval, There is no reserve requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. For domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, there is a 6% reserve requirement. There is no liquidity requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. Effective February 1, 2001, for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, there is a l i q u id asset require- ment of 19% (previously 25%, to be placed 12% in treasury bills, 8% in government deben- tures, and 5% in cash). D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident deposit accounts are treated the same as resident deposit accounts. D ifferen t ial treatment is based on whether the amount is in domestic currency. Open foreign exchange position limits L im i ts are set by the CBB. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Approval is required for investment of pension funds abroad. A 6% tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered w i th the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 89 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Imports and import payments January 1. The fourth phase of the CARICOM GET came into effect. Changes During 2000 April 1. Nontariff barriers on prepared meats, detergents, and T-shirts were replaced w i th tariffs ranging from 20% to over 200%. April 1. The temporary surcharge of 75% on non-CARICOM imports was removed. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February I. The l iqu id asset requirement on domestic currency deposits was lowered to 19% from 25% and the requ irement to hold part of the l iqu id assets in treasury b i l l s, gov- ernment debentures, and cash was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of April 30, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Crawling band Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belarus is the Belarusian rube l. Through September 13, 2000, four exchange rates were legally quoted in Belarus: (1) the official exchange rate set by the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) on the basis of trading sessions on the Belarusian Currency and Stock Exchange (BCSE), which was applied to surrender requirements and accounting transactions; (2) the exchange rate set on the supplementary trading sessions of the BCSE; (3) the weighted average exchange rate in the interbank market; and (4) the cash exchange rate. Effective September 14, 2000, the main and the supplementary sessions were merged, reducing the number of exchange rates to three. Effective January 1, 2000, the cash exchange rate market was liberalized, a l low ing ex- change bureaus to set exchange rates freely. However, a l im it of $300 a person a day for each exchange bureau still remains. Foreign currency above the mandatory surrender amount may be sold on the interbank market. However, effective September 1, 2000, transactions are restricted to the equ iva lent of $5,000 a market participant a month. On March 31, 2000, the additional trading session at the BCSE was liberalized, allowing banks to purchase foreign exchange freely. Buyers of foreign exchange at the additional trading session, however, are still required to record the purchase at the official exchange rate and cannot record the difference between the off ic ial and the actual rate as a cost item for tax purposes. On September 14, 2000, the main and supplementary trading sessions were merged. The off ic ial exchange rate was set as the market-clearing rate of the previous day. Effective January 1, 2001, the authorities announced the introduction of a craw l ing peg against the Russian rub le. The NBB adjusts the exchange rate w i th mon th ly deva lua t ions of 3%. An exchange rate band of 2% around the central parity is maintained. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. n.a. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same provisions as the spot market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements of transactions between residents and nonresidents are effected in any cur- rency, if so provided for by intergovernmental agreements or arrangements between the central banks of both parties to the settlements. Settlements w i th nonresidents in rube ls are also allowed regardless of the existence of an agreement, provided the nonresident has the appropriate rubel account at a bank in Belarus. In accordance w i th the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payment Un ion of Member Countries of the CIS and bilateral payment agreements between Belarus and the central banks of those countries, settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries are 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 91 effected in the national currencies of the parties involved in the settlements, in the currencies of the Payment Un ion Member Countries of the CIS and in freely convertible currencies, in accordance w i th legislation in effect w i th in the territory of the country. Settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries and the Baltic countries are ef- fected using noncash procedures via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and central banks. In accordance w i th bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Moldova, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, only settlements for operations ensu ing from the func t ions of central banks are effected via correspondent accounts of central banks. Settlements for all other accounts are effected via correspondent accounts of authorized banks. In accordance w i th bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central bank of Estonia, settlements between economic agents may be effected both via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and via correspondent accounts of central banks. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Settlements between residents in fore ign currency are prohibited, except in cases estab- lished by laws or the NBB. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Belarus ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements with 14 countries, inc lud ing the CIS countries. Yes. There are arrangements w i th Moscow and various other regions in Russia. There is an agreement w i th Uzbekistan calling for the exchange of cotton for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements w i th Moldova and Uk ra ine. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade of certain goods requires approval from the M in is try of Foreign A f fa i rs (MFA). Barter agreements are effected at the level of economic agents. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control The Par l iament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for administering them. The exchange control authorities are the Council of Ministers, the NBB, and the customs au thor i ty, wh i le the agents of exchange control are banks, customs offices, and other bodies of state adm in is t ra t ion. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are required to obtain a license from the MOF to deal in precious stones and metals. Controls on external trade Licenses for residents to export precious metals and stones are issued by the MFA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 BELARUS Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equ iva lent of 100 times the Belarusian m i n im um wage. Resident and nonresident private persons may freely take out the equ iva lent of $1,500— amounts greater than this require authorization. Traveller's checks in foreign currencies must be declared upon export. Exports of foreign exchange to states participating in the customs un ion is un l im i t ed. The import of up to the equ iva lent of 100 times the Belarusian m i n im um wage is a l lowed. There are no limitations on the import of foreign currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically W i thout declaring the sources of the ir foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks authorized to transact in foreign exchange. Held abroad These accounts may be he ld abroad, but NBB approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are prohibited from open ing domestic currency accounts abroad. Resident ju r id ical persons may purchase foreign currency for payments to import goods, labor, and services; payments for business trip expenditures and training abroad; and re- payments of loans and interest. Insurance companies may convert balances to establish insurance funds from net profits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident ju r id ical persons may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts w i th authorized banks in Belarus. The source of the funds may be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sales of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, inc lud ing sales to residents; debt-service payment; interest earned on balances in the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments from the performance of other operations w i th residents and nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or ex- changed for Belarusian rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Approval from the central bank concerned is required to open accounts for nonresidents if th is regulation is contained in the arrangement governing the settlements. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may open I (investment), T (current), and C (investment in government securities) accounts at authorized commercial banks. I accounts may be cred- ited with the Belarusian rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sales, dividends, resources from the liquidation of enterprises, and compensation in the event of the nationalization of enterprises. Resources from I accounts may be used to purchase foreign currency, shares of enterprises, privatization checks, etc. T accounts are used for current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and of goods and services, and resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt obligations of banks, etc. are transferred into them. Resources from T accounts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expenditures. Funds in C accounts are used for investments in securities issued by the Belarusian government and the NBB. Proceeds from the sale of freely convertible currencies and/or Russian rubles, as we ll as proceeds from the redemption or sale of government and NBB securities by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Convertible into foreign currency BELARUS 93 nonresidents, are deposited in C accounts if the original purchases were made w i th payments from C accounts. W i th NBB approval, balances on I and C accounts may be converted into foreign currency. In this process, balances on C accounts may be converted into foreign currency und er con- dition that the nonresident was a holder of securities of the government or the NBB for a period of t ime established by the NBB. Blocked accounts n.a. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses For down payments for goods or services exceeding $100,000, a foreign bank guarantee is requ ired. For paymen ts for imported services more than 90 days in advance of the perform- ance of the services and for imported goods more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the goods, permission from the MFA is required; for advance payment of more than 180 days, NBB approval is required. On September 20, 2000, the NBB removed the restriction on invo ic ing imports in rube ls. Yes. Licenses are required for importing the following goods: alcoholic products and ethyl alco- hol made from edible raw material (under quotas); raw and white sugar; plant-protecting chemicals; indus tr ial wastes; slag; and tobacco products. All goods may be imported freely, except those subject to p roh ib i t ions and restrictions. There are proh ib i t ions on importing production and consumption wastes that cannot be processed or used in Belarus; on printed matter, aud iov isual materials, and other in fo r- mation media containing information that may harm the Republic's political or economic interests, its state security, or the health and morals of its citizens. General licenses apply to imports of raw and white sugar, plant-protecting chemicals, industrial wastes, slag, and tobacco. Licenses w i th quotas Licenses apply to imports of ethyl alcohol made from edible raw materials. Import taxes and/or tar iffs The Repub l ic of Belarus has abolished customs controls and customs processing of goods mov ing between Belarus and Russia. Efforts are under way to establish a u n i f o rm trade policy in relation to third countries. The tariff structure consists of higher rates that apply to goods such as weapons, ammun i t ion, precious metal products, carpets, motor veh ic les, alcohol, and certain others. Regular (base) import duty rates apply to countries w i th MFN status. The preferential treatment given to goods from developing countries (duties that are 75% of the base rates) and from the least developed countries w i th th is status (goods from wh ich are imported duty-free) is applied to a certain list of goods imported onto the cus- toms territory of Belarus. Duties are applied at twice the MFN rate on imports from coun- tries without MFN status. On January 1, 2000, customs duties on textiles from the EU were temporar i ly reduced. Effective March 13, 2001, fees on foreign trade (barter transactions) were abolished. Indirect taxes (VAT and excise tax) are collected on commod i ty imports from all countries except Turkmenistan, Georgia, and Russia. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services must be repatriated w i th in 90 days (60 days w i t h in Europe) of sh ipp ing, inc lud ing goods exported und er a barter or Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 BELARUS Surrender requirements clearing contract. Special MFA approval is needed for longer periods of time; special NBB approval is needed for periods in excess of 180 days. A temporary 10% mandatory surrender requirement in the afternoon session of the M insk In terbank Currency Exchange was in effect un t il January 1, 2000. The exchange rate ap- plied to this surrender was the rate prevailing in the main session. On March 1, 2000, however, an additional 10% surrender requirement was introduced tem- porarily for subsequent sale of these funds to the Belarusian State Petroleum and Chemical Concern for the purchase of petroleum, petroleum products, and other hydrocarbon new materials. This requirement was removed on December 31, 2000. The surrender require- ment for freely convertible currencies and Russian rubles at the off ic ial exchange rate is curren t ly 30%. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements A transaction certificate and a statistical declaration are required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes n.r. n .r. Licenses are required on export of the fo l low ing goods: mineral fer t i l izers (w i th in allocated quotas); ferrous metal waste and scrap, copper, a lum inum, and nickel (w i th in allocated quotas); textiles (only for exports to EU states in accordance with the agreement on textile trading between Belarus and the EU); alcoholic products; unprocessed wood; precious metals and precious stones in any form and state; and petroleum and petroleum re f in ing products. Yes. Mineral fertilizers, waste, and ferrous and nonferrous metal scrap are subject to export quo- tas and licensing requirements. In the context of the common customs area, customs duties apply that are analogous to those of Russia on natural and liquefied gas, crude petroleum, and petroleum products obtained from bituminous materials exported from the customs territory of Belarus outside the member states of the Customs Un ion. VAT and excise taxes are collected on excisable goods that are exported to CIS countries, w i th the exception of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Other export taxes A tax applies for exported timber and products thereof. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Prior to Ap r il 1, 2001, when th is l im it was l i f ted, ind iv idua ls (residents and nonresidents) were permitted to acquire foreign cash of up to $300 a day. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona fide expenses related to business travel, up to the standard business travel allowances established by legislation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All service export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days unless special permission for a longer period of repatriation has been granted by the MFA. Special permission from the NBB is required for a period exceeding 180 days. A requ i rement of 30% applies to receipts in freely conver t ib le currencies and Russian rubles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 95 Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature The government and the NBB establish quotas and procedures for clearing the securities of foreign issuers for circulation in Belarus and the quotas and procedures for clearing securi- ties of issuers under the jur isd ic t ion of Belarus for circulation outside Belarus. Registration w i th the State Securities Committee of the Repub l ic of Belarus (GKTsB) is required for export and import of securities. Purchase locally by nonresidents GKTsB registration is required for shares to be exported. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents GKTsB registration is required for shares to be imported. Purchase abroad by residents A permit from the NBB and registration with the BCSE and, when necessary, with the GKTsB are required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Registration of securities is required. The NBB regulates the issue of CDs and saving cer- tificates by banks. These may be issued both in domestic currency and in foreign exchange. Banks are not allowed to export bank certificates. Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is not required for sale. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents An NBB perm it is required to purchase government securities or securities issued by the NBB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB perm it is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents An NBB perm it is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits A permit is required for deferral of receipt of export proceeds. For deferrals of 90 to 180 days, the permit is issued by the MFA; for deferrals of more than 180 days, the permit is issued by the NBB. An analogous procedure applies to an advance, and to an advance payment. By residents to nonresidents An NBB permit is required if the credit is for more than 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 BELARUS To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBB is required for a credit of more than 180 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A permit from the NBB and MFA is required. Inward direct investment Foreign investment must be registered at the MFA; financial institutions must also register it at the NBB. In the case of insurance institutions, foreign investment must also be regis- tered at the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain activities require special ap- proval (license). When establishing an enterprise with foreign investments, the size of a foreign investor's share is not restricted, except for insurance organizations and banks, where it may not exceed 49%. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed f u ll repatriation of their in i t ial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Sale locally by nonresidents The purchasing resident must have an NBB permit. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents These operations are prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of bank ing licenses. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending in rubels to nonresidents is prohibited. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are permitted only for settlements with nonresidents. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Coordination w i th the NBB is required. Open foreign exchange position limits are established depending on the type of foreign currency (freely convertible currency and currency with restricted conver t ib i l i ty). Require- ments are also established with regard to limits on the differential between off-balance- sheet assets and liabilities. Limits are computed as a whole by type of foreign currency regardless of whether the asset (liability) belongs to a resident or nonresident. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2000 January L The cash exchange rate market was liberalized, allowing exchange bureaus to set exchange rates freely. March 31. The additional trading session at the BCSE was liberalized, allowing banks to purchase foreign exchange freely. September L A max imum of the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency a market partici- pant a month may be sold on the interbank market. September 14. The main and supplementary BCSE sessions were merged, reducing the number of exchange rates to three from four. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 97 Imports and import payments January 1. Customs duties on textiles from the EU were reduced for a period of six months. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The temporary 10% surrender requirement was abolished. September 20. The NBB removed the restriction on invoicing imports in rubles. March L An additional 10% surrender requirement was introduced temporarily for the subsequent sale of these funds to the Belarusian State Petroleum and Chemical Concern for the purchase of petroleum, petroleum products, and other new hydrocarbon materials. December 31. The additional 10% surrender requirement for subsequent sale to the Belarusian State Petroleum and Chemical Concern was removed. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January 1. The authorities announced the introduction of a crawling peg against the Russian ruble. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Imports and import payments March 13. Fees on foreign trade (barter) transactions were abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April L The l im it on payments for travel was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender re- mains the Belgian franc u n t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Belgian franc and the euro w i ll circulate. Other legal tender The Luxembourg franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Belgium participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Belgian franc is set at BF 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to intervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Belgium applies exchange restrictions against Iraq. The restrictions on payments and trans- fers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l if ted on November 14, 2000. In accordance with UN sanctions Effective February 17, 2000, accounts of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) were blocked. Effective September 22, 2000, accounts of some residents of Myanmar were also blocked. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM Resident Accounts 99 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are affected by international security restrictions. The accounts held in the names of several former Yugoslav officials are still blocked. Effective February 17, 2000, accounts of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) were blocked. Effective September 22, 2000, accounts of some residents of Myanmar were also blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Ind iv idual licenses are required for certain specified imports from some non-EU countries, including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, nontextile products from China, and, effective January 1, 2000, shoes from Vietnam. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Effective January 1, 2001, the licensing requirement for steel im- ports from several non-EU countries was lifted. Along with other EU countries, the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Un ion applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA; on a number of steel products from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine; and on a number of products from China (ceramics, porcelain, and shoes). Import taxes and/or tariffs Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 BELGIUM Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for only a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for weapons, and for diamonds. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for the acqui- sition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies that do not have their pr inc ipal office in Belgium. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These regulations are maintained, but the introduction of the euro has considerably reduced their significance. The EU allows its member states to ma in ta in such regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 101 Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts February ln. Accounts of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghan is tan) were blocked. September 22. Accounts of some residents of Myanmar were blocked. November 14. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Imports and import payments January 1. Ind iv idual import licenses are required for the import of shoes from V ie tnam. Imports and import payments January 1. The licensing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was lifted. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of BZ$1 per US$0.5. The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of CARICOM member countries. A stamp duty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. Residents may use only the Belize dollar in domestic transactions. Belize is a member of CARICOM. Belize participates in the CMCF. The CBB is responsible for administering exchange control, wh ich applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in the ir capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications invo lv ing sub- stantial amounts is reference made directly to the CBB. However, all applications for for- eign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for audit and record keeping. No. No. Residents may not hold gold except w i th specific authorization from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported w i thout the approval of the CBB. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 103 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZ$100. Amounts beyond this l im it require the approval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. The amount of foreign currency that each resident traveler may take abroad is left to the discretion of the commercial banks. It is subject to availability and guided by limits. Nonresidents may take out up to the amount imported or the limits specified. Each traveler may b r ing in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened both domestically and abroad, but approval is required. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must have permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Prepayments for imports require authorization from the CBB; in most cases, such authori- zation is delegated to the commercial banks. The CBB rations its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential import items, such as fuel and Pharmaceuticals. Letters of credit Other Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licen- ses from the Ministry of Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 BELIZE Import taxes and/or tar iffs agr icu l tural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are l ibera l ly granted. Effective Apr il 1, 2000, Belize applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET and the max imum external tariff was reduced to 20% from 25%. As a result, import tariff rates range from 5% to 20%, with a number of items (particularly agricultural inputs) entering duty free. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for reexport are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement duties ranging from 15% to 25%. Specific duties and surcharges apply to certain products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months af- ter the date of shipment, unless otherwise directed by the CBB. The CBB makes direct purchases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the traditional practice of purchasing from commercial banks. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for live animals, excluding pets; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks, excluding agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus fruits; and sugar. Yes. Transshipments are subject to a 1.5% customs administration fee. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The CBB rations its sale of foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential items, such as insurance. Trade-related payments There are controls on the payment of commissions. Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits For the payment and transfer of commissions, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. For interest payments, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For transfer of profits and dividends, an income statement and a declaration of d iv id ends must be presented along with clearance from the CIT. The fo l low ing limits are in effect: (1) for nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a trip; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a max- imum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Payments related to medical costs are made directly to a doctor or hospital w i th or ig inal invoices or b i l ls supporting the application. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 105 Prior approval For transfer of pension and payments for fam i ly maintenance and alimony, approval by the CBB is required. Quantitative limits The l im it for g if ts is BZ$100 a donor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For the transfer of consu l t ing and legal fees, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Indicative limits/bona fide test Similar requirements apply for subscriptions and membership fees as for study abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transfers require the approval of the CBB, but controls are l ibera l ly administered. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all these transactions. There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Inward direct investment must be registered with the CBB if the profits are to be repatriated in the fu tu re. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on personal capital movements There are controls on all these transactions. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The repatriation of gamb l ing proceeds by nonresidents requires clearance from the CIT. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BELIZE Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Imports and import payments April 1. Belize applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. External tariffs were reduced to 20% from 25%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in French francs. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are ma in ly made in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are effected freely. n.a. n.a. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of these institutions relate to outward investment, the domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents, and resident accounts abroad. Within the framework of the regional financial market, the placement and soliciting of foreign and domestic securities in Benin require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. Internat ional security restrictions No. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 BENIN Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require pr ior authorization of the MOF. The export of CFAF banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of exported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO bank- notes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency equivalent to CFAF 2 million a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. The amounts must be declared at customs. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion must declare them to customs upon entry. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad with the authorization of the MOF, which is granted after obtaining approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 109 Domestic currency accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of purchas ing foreign currency on the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion are subject to prior inspection. Negative list Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Import taxes and/or tariffs On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a CET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). In addition, a 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. value, were introduced. On the same date, the statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in 30 days of the payment due date. Authorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Other Export licenses Without quotas Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MOF, w i th the exception of articles with small gold content, travelers' personal effects we igh ing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of the ir face va lue and denom ina t ion). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1 10 W i th quotas Export taxes BENIN Exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and charcoal are banned. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Yes. Yes. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Other payments The use of credit cards is allowed only when issued by specialized institutions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions w i th non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital transactions Capital Transactions According to exchange regulations w i th in the WAEMU, essentially all capital inf lows may take place freely. Capital outflows in the form of repayment of credits, l iqu ida t ion of in- vestments, and purchases of option contracts may also be carried out freely. All invest- ments by residents abroad require prior authorization from the MOF and may be financed up to 75% with foreign borrowing. The granting of credits by residents to nonresidents requires documentation for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents BENIN in Prior RCPSFM authorization is required for the issue or sale of securities or real estate by nonresidents as well as for the solicitation and advertisement of investments abroad. The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Ben in by non- residents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. There are no controls on the sale of securities resu l t ing from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, but such sales are subject to the regulations governing the f inanc ial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonres ident account requires an exchange au thor iza t ion to be subm i t ted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Beninese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- t ion to the MOF. The sale of securities to l iqu ida te an investment abroad is subject to decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in one month. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those cons t i tu t ing a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market ins trumen ts on the local market is sub- ject to pr ior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received pr ior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market ins t rumen ts abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment are subject to a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in fore ign exchange from sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an au thor ized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market ins t rumen ts abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The same regu la t ions apply as for money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Residents are not allowed to purchase abroad new materials or shares w i th the aim of de l iv- er ing these w i t h in the framework of a sell option contract. If the execution of a contract requires de l ive ry abroad, the sell option must have unde r ly ing assets that may be bought locally by residents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized in termed iar ies or those that comply w i th specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrow ing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 BENIN Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Gran t ing of such credits is subject to two provisions: (1) C la ims resu l t ing from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Genera l ly, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days fo l low ing the a r r ival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one mon th after the pay- ment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the p rov is ion of the service, as we ll as the payment due date. The granting of f inanc ial credits requires the pr ior au thor iza t ion of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange au tho r iza t ion must be subm i t- ted w i th the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed th rough an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Benin and its parent company abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to pr ior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these fac i l i t ies requires the prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents The same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval by the MOF is requ ired. A max imum of 75% of such inves tmen ts may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must subm it a written request ind ica t ing the author- ized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, inc lud ing their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the requ ired documen ta t ion to an authorized in te rmed ia ry respons ib le for payment. The l iqu ida t ion of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the l iqu id a t ion is sub ject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion must be repatriated w i th in one mon th through an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry. Real estate inves tment abroad by a resident is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of d irect inves tment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documen ta t ion to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made th rough the BCEAO, the postal service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless p r ior au thor iza t ion is obtained from the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 113 Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The ind iv idu a ls concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation w i thout first be ing licensed and included in the list of f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents to residents may be granted freely, requ i r ing on ly a dec lara t ion to the MOF for statistical purposes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Except for inheritances and legacies, for wh ich payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to these operations require prior MOF authorization. Imm igran ts who have obtained resident status must obtain pr ior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, w i thout pr ior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Larger amounts may be transferred w i th MOF authorization. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are not permitted to ho ld l i q u id assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to cover current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions may be freely conducted, but are subject to pr ior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, f inanc ial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange No exp l ic it regu la t ions exist regarding these transactions, but p r ior au thor iza t ion by the MOF is required with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases require prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonres ident requires the pr ior au thor iza t ion of the MOF w i th the approval of the BCEAO. All overdrafts and advances require prior MOF authorization w i th BCEAO approval. The same regulations apply as for foreign investment. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are no pruden t ial ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally The Insurance Code in effect in Benin inc ludes rules applicable specifically to the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1 14 BENIN Imports and import payments Changes During 2000 January 1. The WAEMU introduced a GET w i th four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%) for all member countries except Guinea-Bissau. January 1. A 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. value, were introduced. January 1. The statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bhutan is the Bhutanese ngu l t rum. The Ind ian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The ngu l trum is pegged to the Ind ian rupee at par. The rates for currencies other than the Ind ian rupee are determined on the basis of the preva i l ing quotations by the State Bank of Ind ia for those currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic cur- rency n.a. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Yes. Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on external trade On May 20, 2000, Bhutan jo ined the ACU. The MOF controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. The MOF has delegated to the Royal Monetary Au thor i ty (RMA) the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The RMA is charged w i th imp lemen t ing the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for payments for inv i s ib le transactions. Payments and remittances by residents to nonresidents other than in cash and trave ler's checks must be channeled through authorized banks in Bhutan. No. No. Imports of gold and s i lve r, up to stipulated quantities, by Bhutanese citizens are permitted. Imports beyond th is requ ire special permission from the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The importation and exportation of cash and securities are subject to declaration of va lue at the customs po int of entry into, and departure from, Bhutan. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad BHUTAN Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign currency notes purchased from authorized banks or declared on entry may be exported freely. Resident Accounts The fo l low ing categories of persons are permitted to open and ma in ta in dollar-denominated foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Bhutan: (1) d ip loma t ic m iss ions in Bhutan and their expatriate employees, (2) representative offices of donor agencies and the ir expatriate employees, (3) third-country contracting f irms and the ir expatriate employees engaged in executing projects financed by donor agencies, and (4) any person who is a national of a th ird country and resides in Bhutan. The accounts may be opened, but approval of the RMA is required. Residents of Bhutan are not allowed to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. However, Bhutanese citizens l iv ing abroad must close foreign exchange accounts upon return and repatriate any balances to Bhutan. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses are governed by Ru les and Procedures for Imports of Goods from Th ird Countries issued by the MOF. An import license is required for the importation of capital and intermediate goods from countries other than India. Foreign exchange for all paymen ts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tar iffs BHUTAN 117 related to merchandise imports is automatically made available by authorized banks against import licenses. Imports from India are free from tariffs and are subject only to the Bhutanese sales tax. Tax rates range from zero for essential commodities to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than India are subject to tariffs. The max imum tariff rate is 30%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alcoholic beverages and spirits (100%). State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Proceeds in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan w i th in 90 days. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export taxes are applied only to exports of unprocessed timber, apples, oranges, and cardamom. Exports to countries other than Ind ia receive a rebate at rates ranging from 5% to 20% of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All inv is ib le payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the RMA. The RMA is charged with setting limits (indicative in most cases) up to which foreign exchange may be made available for payments for invisible transactions. Yes. Informa t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. There is a travel allowance of $1,500 per ticketed passenger per calendar year. In case of business travel, the foreign exchange cost of an air ticket and country-specific per d iem covering accommodation are provided to travelers. There are no time limits, but two weeks is considered the norm. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 BHUTAN Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Educational fees and tu i t ion are covered fu l ly and without any l im i ts through direct payments to the universities or institutions abroad. Students also receive a monthly stipend of $900 and a onetime settling-in allowance of $1,500; the settling-in allowance and three monthly stipends are paid in advance. For medical expenses, subject to referral by a local physician for treatment abroad, foreign exchange is provided to cover the cost of treatment and medicine and for living expenses abroad. L iv ing expenses vary from country to country, but there are no set limits for the other expenses, and all reasonable expenses are covered. Yes. A citizen of Bhutan who, under the recommendation of a medical specialist, is proceeding to a third country for medical treatment is permitted to purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks, w i th in the l im it prescribed by the RMA for the cost of treatment, medicine, and living expenses. Any national of a third country, who —with the prior approval of the royal government of Bhutan —is employed directly by a public or private organization in Bhutan, is permitted to remit his or her salary and savings in foreign exchange through an authorized bank. The RMA may set l im i ts on any or all such remittances as it deems necessary. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange proceeds of any receipts or holdings by Bhutanese citizens and companies should be repatriated to Bhutan by transferring such claims and funds to authorized banks in Bhutan. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions must be approved by the RMA. Controls on capital and money market instruments Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all derivative transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment There are controls on all direct investment transactions. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all real estate transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 1 19 Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Up to $5 m i l l ion (gross) investment is allowed. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts May 20. Bhutan joined the ACU. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bo l iv ia is the boliviano. The dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Crawling peg The official selling rate is determined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bo l iv ia (CBB). The official exchange rate is the average of the bid rates accepted in the latest auc- tion and applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves in the CBB. Before each auction, the Com- mittee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the CBB w i ll not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate and is based on the exchange rate of the dollar. The CBB is required to offer in all auctions uni- tary lots of $5,000 or mu l t ip les thereof; the m i n im um allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and m in imum bids have been less than 2%. Economic agents may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. All pub l ic sector institutions, inc lud ing pub l ic enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the CBB auction market. Sales of foreign exchange by the CBB to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.02 per $1 over its buy ing rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Payments between Bo l iv ia and the other LAIA countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the CBB and the central banks of the countries concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. The MOF, together w i th the CBB, is in charge of approving pub l ic sector purchases of fore ign exchange for debt-service payments. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 121 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Gold may be traded freely, subject to the fo l low ing tax scale in accordance w i th the gross va lue of the sale of gold bu l l ion: 7% for official quotations larger than $700 a troy ounce; between 4% and 7% for off ic ial quotations between $400 and $700 a troy ounce, calculated as a 0.01 factor mu l t ip l ied by the official quotation; and 4% for official quotations of less than $400 a troy ounce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit LCs have to be opened at a bank in the Bolivian banking system. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports are controlled for reasons of pub l ic health or national security. Bolivia has a general un i fo rm import tariff of 10%. A tariff of 5% is applied to capital goods that are also produced by other Andean Commun i ty countries. A zero rate is applied to other capital goods imports. Effec t ive March 14, 2000, a new list of capital goods that are subject to tariffs of zero and 5% was issued. A rate of 2% is applied to imports of books and printed matter. Donations of food, inc lud ing wheat, are exempt from the import tar iff. State import monopoly No. Repa tr ia t ion requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 BOLIVIA F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Exports are subject to a revision process by pub l ic entities. If necessary, however, exporters may contract specialized agencies for verification. No. There is a system of tax rebates for indirect taxes and import duties paid on the production costs of exported goods and services, including the duty component of depreciation of capi- tal goods used. Exporters of small items whose value in Bolivia's annual exports is less than $3 million receive tax rebates of 2% or 4% of the f.o.b. export value under a simplified procedure. Other exporters receive tax and import duty rebates based on annua l ly deter- mined coefficients that reflect their documented cost structure. Tax rebates for large ex- porters are based on the duties paid on total production costs. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on the payment for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Pub l ic sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Profit remittances are subject to a 12.5% tax, which is computed as equiva- lent to the 25% income tax times the presumed net profit of 50% of the amount remitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the MOF and to control by the CBB. All proceeds of borrowings from foreign pub l ic sector agencies must be surrendered to the CBB. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 123 Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Financial institutions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign cur- rency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the exporting sector with resources from international f inanc ial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. All overseas credits of less than a one-year term are subject to reserve requirements, except for fu l ly matched, short-term liabilities for foreign trade operations. The reserve requirement is 2% for domestic and foreign exchange short-term deposits and for time deposits in foreign exchange of more than six months but less than one year. Do- mestic currency time deposits are exempt, as are all time deposits for more than one year. The l iqu id asset requirement is 10% for domestic and foreign exchange short-term deposits and for time deposits in foreign exchange of more than one year but less than two years. Domestic currency deposits are exempt, as are all time deposits for more than two years. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 80% of the value of the banks' net worth m inus their fixed assets. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The max imum l im it that pension fund administrators may invest abroad varies between 10% and 50% of the total value of the Ind iv idual Capitalization Fund. The specific l im it is decided by the CBB. Pension fund administrators may invest abroad through authorized primary and secondary markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments March 14. A new list of capital goods subject to tariffs of zero and 5% was issued. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the convertible marka. Deutsche mark banknotes and coins circulate w ide ly in the two constituent entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The convertible marka is pegged to the deutsche mark at par. The Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (CBBH) no longer publishes indicative exchange rates for other currencies. The CBBH guarantees unrestricted convertibility of the convertible marka for deutsche mark. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency No. n.a. n.a. No. There are no foreign exchange controls in place for transactions in convertible marka. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign currency that may be taken across international borders or transferred through bank transactions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 125 Ind iv idua ls and exporters may hold foreign exchange in accounts with commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required from the MOF in the two entities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Imports must arrive w i th in 60 days from the date of the advance payment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of cows, pigs, and meat from Belgium, Germany, and several other countries are temporarily prohibited. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. No. Exporters have to be authorized to engage in foreign trade. Customs requires that exporters provide documents accompanying the goods; in some cases, documents verifying the origin of the goods are also required. No. On September 1, 2000, a decree on export taxes was promulgated. There is no single rate; rather, tax is imposed in absolute amounts applied to d i f fe rent categories of t imber. Tax ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA rates vary from KM 10 per cubic meter for low-grade wood to KM 150 per meter of high- qua l i ty wood. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Following an agreement with Germany, the CBBH w i ll provide documentation to Germany on pensions from Germany that are being paid by the commercial banks under its jur isd ic- t ion to the workers concerned. Controls on capital transactions Securities markets participants must be authorized to trade on the organized markets. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Only pruden t ial regulations on banks apply. Controls on direct investment No. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Fu ll repatriation of principal and profits is permitted after compliance w i th tax laws and settlement of due obligations. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents The foreign exchange law prescribes limits. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 127 Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The foreign exchange law and the banking law regulate these transactions on the level of the entities that constitute Bosnia and Herzegovina. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. There are legal controls on stocks, shares, and securities. Changes During 2000 Exports and export proceeds September J. A decree on export taxes on timber was promulgated, according to which d ifferent categories of timber are taxed at different absolute amounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana pula. Some external loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990, are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Sharing Scheme (FERSS). Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4% are borne fu l ly by the borrower, while the next 6% and the following 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government in ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, respectively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15% are borne fu l ly by the govern- ment. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Under the FERSS, borrowers obtain foreign exchange for servicing their external debt at exchange rates that may d iffer from the market rate by more than 2%. The scheme is to be phased out once the existing loans are fu l ly repaid. No new loans w i ll be issued under this scheme. The exchange rate of the pu la is determined w i th reference to a weighted basket of cu r ren- cies comprising the SDR and the South African rand. The central bank deals in four curren- cies: the dollar, the South African rand, the euro, and the pound sterling. Foreign exchange bureaus are licensed to deal in foreign currencies on a spot basis only. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and the ma tu r i ty dates of forward exchange contracts/transactions are not restricted. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents are permitted to make payments for goods and services from outside sources using pula-denominated checks, provided that traders outside Botswana are w i l l i ng to ac- cept their collection by banks outside Botswana. Such transactions are subject to supporting documentation for checks in amounts exceeding P 10,000. n.a. n.a. Botswana is a signatory to various bilateral trade agreements w i th the fo l low ing countries: China, the Czech Republic, Republic of Korea, Malawi, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Operative Inoperative Yes. Yes. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency BOTSWANA 129 Botswana is a member of the SACU, wh ich allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on trade-related payments to or from SACU countries. For practical/operational purposes, several administrative powers of the Bank of Botswana (BOB) have been delegated to commercial banks. No. No. There are no restrictions on trading or owning precious metals in commercial forms, such as coins, but there are restrictions on possession of unwrought precious metals, such as bu l l ion. A declaration is required for amounts equal to or in excess of P 10,000 at the time of travel. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they legitimately own, subject to completion of a declaration for any amount equal to or greater than P 10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents and for nonresidents. These accounts facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without requ ir ing conversion of foreign currency receipts into pula and vice versa and protection against fluctuations in exchange rates. Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for the ir customers for any amount in any currency at the discretion of banks. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are regulated by customs and excise legislation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 BOTSWANA Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a GET only on imports from outside the SACU. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements For the fo l low ing goods, the max imum l im i ts for exports free of payments are: bona fide nonmonetary gifts, P 20,000 a year for a permanent resident; rejected goods, P 100,000 a transaction, subject to provision of documentary evidence; and commercial samples (i.e., goods for exh ib i t ions or other promotional purposes), P 150,000 a transaction. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements n .r. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue purposes. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires a permit. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Authorized dealers may allow remittances of interim dividends w i thout reference to the BOB for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange (BSE) and may approve other remittances of dividends/profits without reference to the BOB, subject to satisfactory supporting documentation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents No controls are placed on the participation of nonresidents in debt instruments issued in the domestic market, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase central bank b i l ls (BOB certificates), or any money market instrument, the purpose of wh ich is to mop up excess l iqu id i ty in the system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 131 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to issue long-term pula-denominated bonds traded on the BSE, subject to the listing requirements of the exchange. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase the monetary instruments used by the BOB to absorb excess liquidity. These controls are subject to foreign exposure limits of a particular bank. No. No. No. n.r. No. Loans to nonresident customers are restricted to 25% of the unimpaired capital of a com- mercial bank, and, in aggregate, loans to nonresidents should not exceed 800% of a bank's unimpaired capital. These transactions are subject to the listing requirements of the BSE. Prudential limits are set for exposure per currency and for the overall foreign currency risk exposure. For major dealing currencies, the l im it is 15% of a bank's unimpaired capital and for others, it is 5%. The l im it for the overall foreign exchange exposure is 30% of the unimpaired capital of a bank, using the shorthand method. n.r. n.r. n.r. Institutional investors, such as pension funds and life insurance companies, may invest not more than 70% of their assets outside Botswana. This control is imposed by the Registrars of Insurance and Pension and Provident Funds. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of March 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1999. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian real. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, tourist agencies, and providers of accommodation for tourists that are authorized to deal in foreign ex- change. Brokers and tourist agencies deal only in banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. Providers of accommodation for tourists may only buy banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. The max imum tax on credit, foreign exchange operations, insurance operations, and on transactions in financial instruments or securities (IOF) is limited by law to 25%. A 5% tax is applied to inflows related to external loans with a m in imum coverage maturity of up to 90 days. A 2% tax is applied to remittances related to obligations of credit card administra- tion companies to pay for purchases by their clients. The tax is zero for other foreign ex- change transactions. Effective January 1, 2000, interest payments on all foreign loans con- tracted after that date are taxed at 15%. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks are permitted to trade foreign exchange on a forward basis w i th in the statutory l im i ts (bought, sold) of the exchange position; such transactions must be settled w i th in 360 days. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency is required only in foreign exchange transactions related to the Brazil-Hungary agreement or the LAI A covenant. These transactions must be made in dollars. n.a. n.a. Settlements with Hungary are made in dollars every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Brazil is a member of the LAIA. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Republica Bo l ivar iana de Venezuela may be made through special central bank accounts w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. The National Monetary Council (NMC) is responsible for formulating the overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control regulations affecting foreign capital and the management of in terna t ional reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank of Brazil (CBB). The M in is t ry of P lann ing, Management, and Budget enforces l im i ts on foreign borrowing by the pub l ic sector. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 1 33 Foreign trade policy is formu la ted by the M in is t ry of Development, Indu s t ry, and Foreign Trade, implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formu la t ing guidelines for tar iff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The MOF coordinates pub l ic sector import policy. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are res tr ic t ions imposed on Iraq, L ibya, the Ta l iban (the I s l am ic State of A fghan is tan ), and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) There are two separate markets for gold transactions: the f inanc ial and commercial markets. Transactions that occur in the f inanc ial market are regulated by the CBB. The first domestic negotiation of new ly m ined gold on this market is subject to a 1% f inanc ial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, wh ich also establish d ifferent rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The CBB and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets. Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the in terna t ional price is considered a target price. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBB and au thor ized in s t i tu t ions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the inter- na t ional market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or bring in domestic or foreign banknotes, checks, or traveler's checks w i thout restriction but must declare to customs any amount over the equ iva lent of US$10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts These accounts may be he ld by authorized fore ign exchange dealers; tou r ist agencies not authorized to deal in fore ign exchange; B raz i l ian c i t izens l i v i ng abroad; the B raz i l ian Post Adm in is t ra t ion; credit card adm in is t ra t ion companies; companies respons ib le for the devel- opment and execution of projects in the energy sector; and, effec t ive February 24, 2000, insurance and reinsurance companies and re insu rance brokers. Yes. Yes. n.a. On ly f u n ds deposited in accounts he ld in B raz il by fore ign banks are conver t ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be he ld by embassies, fore ign delegations, in te rna t ional organ iza t ions, fore ign transportation companies, fore ign c i t izens in transit in the coun try, energy compa- nies, and Brazilian c i t izens l i v i ng abroad. E f fec t ive February 24, 2000, the NMC author- ized re insu rance companies to open fore ign exchange accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Natural and ju r id ical persons ( f inanc ial and nonfmanc ial institutions) may hold these accounts. Only the resources deposited in nonresident banks or the resources that have entered Brazil through foreign currency sales and have not been w i thdrawn may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 BRAZIL repatriated to foreign countries. These resources continue to be available to nonresidents once they are withdrawn, but only in the national currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures External financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days must be registered in the Financial Operations Registry, an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Department of Foreign Capital and Ex- change (DECEC) w i th in five days. The time to finalize anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Effective May 11, 2000, advance deposits are required for imports in excess of $100,000 conducted through the LAIA. All importers must be registered in the SECEX Importer and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported by firms and persons and must be registered by the CBB, except for imports by the pub l ic sector (federal, state, and municipal); imports by PETROBRAS (the Brazilian government oil enterprise) and contracting or subcontracting f irms engaged in oil exploration through risk contracts; imports of medicine by ind iv idua ls up to $5,000; imports of samples w i thout commercial value, except for pharmaceutical products up to $1,000; imports of products, except for those prohibited or under special control, by ind iv idu a ls for personal consumption; and imports of goods considered as passengers' baggage for personal use. The import subsystem of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) allows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an import process directly through the interlinked computers of SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the fo l low ing three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, inc lud ing samples w i thout commercial va lue and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/IMPORT; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market w i th in 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a l im it on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). Required for imports originating or proceeding from countries under restrictions de- term ined by the UN Security Counc il and imports of bovines in any form or ig ina t ing or proceeding from the United K ingdom. The drafts or LCs must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under LCs must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the LCs. Federal ministries and subordinate agencies and pub l ic enterprises are requ ired to subm it for approval by the Ministry of Planning, Management, and Budget an annual inves tment program specifying their expected import requirements. There is a s imp l if ied arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to imports of small amounts. Some imports require prior approval (i.e., an import license) from the DECEX. This ap- proval is usua l ly given promptly to registered importers of nonproh ib i ted items. As a ru le, licenses are va l id for 60 days, except for imports of custom-made capital goods. The Secre- tariat of Federal Revenue issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed and customs clearance obtained. The importation of certain products requires approval of the M in is t ry of Science and Tech- nology. For some products, e l ig ib i l i ty for exemption from import du t ies may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equ iva len t. Most imports are exempt from pr ior approval requirements. All trade between MERCOSUR partners is l ibera l ized, w i th the exception of trade in automobiles and sugar. Positive list No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs BRAZIL 135 Imports of agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations; weapons; and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or indu s t r ial policy are prohibited. OGLs are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is restricted to the ir annexes, up to the existing remainder of issued OGLs. In addition to imports under Brazilian concessions covered by the LAIA agreement, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. In ac- cordance with WTO rules, quotas are imposed on imports of textiles from China, Hong Kong SAR, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China due to their effect on the do- mestic industry. The tariff rate on imports of toys is 25% p lus a possible safeguard exten- sion of 15%. For vehicles carrying more than n ine persons, the tariff is 65%. For automo- biles, transport vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles, tariffs are 35%, wh i le assemblers established in Brazil may be favored with a special tariff of 17.5%. Sanitation and measurement requirements must be observed. The MERCOSUR customs union agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods (including a list of national exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of adjustments designed to b r ing them into l ine w i th the CET w i th in f ive or six years. Taxes collected through the exchange system Foreign exchange transactions related to imports of goods have IOF exemp t ion, and fore ign exchange transactions related to imports of services have a tar iff of zero. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas Proceeds must be surrendered before 180 days from the shipment date or 20 days after receipt of proceeds, whichever comes first. Advances on foreign exchange contracts are allowed for operations w i th terms up to 360 days. Documentation includes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registra- tion. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to exports up to the equivalent of US$10,000. Inspection is required for commodities subject to standardization. Exports of w i ld an ima ls and the ir hides, hair, plumes, or eggs in any form; jacaranda-da- Bahia wood; ipecacuanha plants; red and drab varieties of honey; and antiques older than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods requ ire prior approval of the SECEX, inc lud ing those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, ex- ports on consignment, reexports, commodities for wh ich m i n im um export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. SISCOMEX integrates the activities related to the registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations into a single computerized f low of in fo rma t ion. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem allows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the in te r l inked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cleft pine woods, mahogany, Brazilian walnut, and virola are subject to quotas. For exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, inc lud ing sugarcane sy rup inap- propriate for human consumption, the e l ig ib i l i ty for exemption from the export tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quantity exceeding domestic necessity author- ized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism Minister and the MOF. An annual quota is in place for imports under Brazilian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements w i th the LA IA member countries and for goods imported in to the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 BRAZIL Export taxes Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. Exports are free from these taxes or are subject to a zero rate duty, w i th the exception of exports of (1) raw hides, which are subject to an export duty of 9%; and (2) cigarettes to Latin America, which are subject to an export duty of 150%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for current inv is ib les not covered by current regulations requ ire approval from the CBB's DECEC. Indicative limits/bona fide tests apply to all payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers. For unloading and storage costs there are established rules and surveillance procedures related to the operations freely conducted in the commercial market. Regulations on insur- ance and reinsurance transactions in foreign currency are set by the National Counc il on Private Insurance. Yes. Yes. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in the Foreign Investment Law, l im i ts on income tax deductions are placed on remittances of royalties and technical assis- tance fees. It has been possible, however, to make payments of interest on own capital. This k ind of payment may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable in- come of companies, subject to a 15% income w i thho ld ing tax. Profit remittances related to direct investments are exempt from withholding for income tax purposes. Payments due to depreciation of direct investments are not established by the laws and regulations. As a result, remittances abroad from direct investments are treated as dividends, interest on own capital, capital gains, and return (repatriation) of capital. Payments for med ium- and long-term external debt are subject to registration w i th the CBB's DECEC, and require a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, and fees, provided that due taxes are paid. Profit and d iv idend remittances are allowed only when the in i t ial foreign capital concerned, in c lud ing reinvestments, contracts for patents and trademarks, and technical, scientific, and adminis- trative assistance, has been registered with the CBB's DECEC. These contracts must be registered with the Financial Registration, wh ich is an electronic system. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as we ll as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5% of gross receipts in the first f ive years of the company's operation. Amoun ts exceeding th is l im it are considered profits. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 137 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the preva i l ing market rate. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Residents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities, money market securities, and collective investment securities through dedicated offshore investment funds (FIEX). On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment funds are organized in the form of open-end mu tual fund s. Participation is l im i ted exc lus ive ly to natural and ju r id ical persons, and to funds and other co l lec t ive inves tment entities resident, dom ic i led, or headquartered in Brazil. Foreign inves tment funds may be managed by a multipurpose bank, commercial bank, investment bank, bro- kerage f irm, or securities d is tr ibu tor under the supervision and direct respons ib i l i ty of the manager of the institution. The m in imum share of Brady bonds in FIEX funds is 80%. These securities must be kept abroad in a custodian account in the f u n d 's name. The fund is authorized to conduct opera- tions in organized derivative markets abroad solely for the purpose of hedging the securities mak ing up the respective portfolio. Inward and outward transfers of resources through foreign investment funds are subject to registration w i th the CBB for purposes of mon i tor ing and con tro l l ing Brazilian inves tmen t, as well as the respective income, investment repatriation, and capital gains. Transfers are processed in foreign currency through the free exchange rate market. The direct purchase of shares of Brazilian companies by nonresidents basically occurs through direct investments and portfolio investments made by a nonres iden t's representa- tives in the country. Effective March 31, 2000, nonresidents were allowed to purchase shares and other securities listed on the Brazilian stock market. Depositary receipts (DRs) constitute another method of acqu ir ing abroad certificates representing shares of Brazilian companies. A nonres iden t's representatives in the country are responsible for the registration of fo re ign investment with the CBB, foreign exchange settlements, the collection of taxes, portfolio bookkeeping, and the safekeeping of documents related to the por tfo l io. There is no l im it or hold period for f inanc ial transfers resu l t ing from inf lows, flowbacks, and profits or d iv idends from capital du ly registered w i th the CBB, provided that the ac- counting rules and tax laws are complied with. The transfers must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, w i th guaranteed access to the free foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency. Na tural and ju r id i c al persons resident or domiciled in MERCOSUR countries may invest freely in Brazilian stock exchanges w i thout the necessity of trading through investment funds or portfolios. The Brazilian market may be accessed directly by contacting a member institution of the Braz i l ian securities d is t r ibu t ion system, or ind irec t ly through the interme- diation of an ins t i tu t ion in the securities d is tr ibu t ion system of the investor's country. The Brazilian intermediary ins t i tu t ion, through wh ich the foreign investor trades, represents the investor vis-a-vis the Brazilian authorities with respect to the operational, exchange, and tax aspects, and provides informa t ion on the operations executed. These investments may be made in dollars, in the currency of the country of origin of the investment, or in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 BRAZIL Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents reais. Operations invo lv ing the repatriation of capital are exempt from income tax withholding. Earnings from variable-income investments are subject to a 15% income tax withholding. In addition, a 0.38% tax is levied on all inward and outward f inanc ial transactions. The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR env i ronment through share custody certificates or directly. The only way to sell other foreign securities in Brazil is through DRs, which allow the placement of certificates representing these shares in the Brazilian market. Inward and outward remittances associated w i th investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the floating exchange rate market for transactions from MERCOSUR countries and in the free exchange rate market for DR transactions. There are no l im i ts or hold periods for the investments, although authorization is required for DR issues. Brazilian na tural and ju r id i c al persons may invest only on stock exchanges in MERCOSUR countries. Outside MERCOSUR, Brazilian jur id ical persons are allowed to purchase DRs issued abroad by companies headquartered in Brazil. Regulations permit employees of f irms be long ing to foreign economic groups to purchase shares of the ma in company up to the equ iva lent of $20,000 for each employee, for a period of not less than 12 months. In addition to the ru les already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock ex- changes by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective investments may be made through Brazilian investment companies and funds. Issues of securities abroad by residents are accorded the same treatment as direct external borrowing operations. Thus, exchange contracts invo lv ing the entry of foreign currencies must be authorized in advance by the CBB. Fund transfers associated w i th issues of securi- ties abroad are subject to the conditions of the respective certificates of registration issued by the CBB, the conditions of which are set forth in the contract between the debtor and the creditor. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities through dedicated inves tment funds. n .r. Yes. Bonds and some other debt securities may be issued by residents but are subject to registration with the CBB's DECEC and the issue of a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, fees, and amortization of pr inc ipa l, provided that due taxes are paid. Foreign loans of less than 90 days are subject to an IOF of 5%. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase money market ins trumen ts issued by the central bank through dedicated investment funds. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are allowed to issue commercial paper subject to registration w i th the CBB's DECEC and the issue of a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related principal and other payments, provided that due taxes are paid. On collective investment securities Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective March 31, 2000, nonresidents were allowed to purchase collective investments in other securities as we ll as portfolios of stocks and securities, DRs, conversion funds, privatization funds, real estate investment funds, and emerging enterprises investment funds. The constitution of these funds must be announced in wr i t ing to the CBB within a max imum of five days. Funds entering the country are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of con tro l l ing foreign capital and fu tu re remittances abroad of cash d iv idends or bonuses and capital gains realized in the sale of the company's shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents BRAZIL 139 Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations and hav ing guaranteed access to the free exchange rate market to purchase foreign currency. n.r. Yes. Yes. Forward, future, and options transactions in farm products by nonresidents are allowed. Effective March 31, 2000, foreign investors were given access to derivative markets for the first time. Any operation by a nonresident investor in derivatives or other fu tu re settlements markets may only be performed or registered in stock exchanges, commodities and futures ex- changes, or over-the-counter markets organized by an entity authorized by the securities commission or settlement and custody system accredited by the CBB or authorized by the securities commission under their respective jurisdictions. In addition, resident and domi- ciled natural persons and corporations, including those having their head office abroad; funds; and other entities of foreign collective investment may perform transactions in commodities and futures exchanges invo lv ing forwards, futures, and options contracts in farm products. There are no restrictions on investments in derivative operations in Brazil by recipients of direct investments. Nonresident financial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to issue swaps in the domestic market, sub- ject to constituting the regulatory capital charge against the counterparty credit risk of such operations if they are not guaranteed by a clearinghouse. Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations with financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of var ia t ions in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. The costs of such operations must conform to the parameters in force in the international market. The CBB may, at its sole discretion, requ i re foreign exchange compensation sufficient to eliminate the effects of operations not in l ine with the established objective, or executed outside those parameters, without prejudice to other sanctions that may apply. Payments and receipts in foreign currency scheduled or expected to occur in the future in connection with commercial or financial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Hedging operations, however, are subject to the fo l low ing l im i ts at any time: (1) in interest rate and currency swaps, the operations are limited to the amount of the unde r ly ing commercial or financial rights and obligations remaining in foreign currency; and (2) in commodities swaps, open positions are l im i ted to the physical vo lume of the commodity to be exported, imported, or traded in the domestic market. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Only two forms of credits are permitted: (1) the Exporting F inanc ing Program (PROEX), wh ich is financed w i th national budget funds —PROEX resources may not be used to estab- lish any fac i l i ty for foreign pub l ic or private entities, insofar as f inanc ing is granted on a case-by-case basis and because credit may not be made available to nonresidents for use in several installments spread over a period of time; and (2) the Machinery and Equipment Export Financing Program (FINAMEX), which is operated through agent banks by the Special Agency for Industrial Financing (FINAME). FINAMEX provides funds so that f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions (FINAME agents) can grant loans to national exporters at rates and on terms s im i lar to those available to the ir foreign competitors. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with terms in excess of 360 days must be authorized by and registered with the CBB's DECEC. Prepayment of exports must be authorized by the CBB prior to the entry of the foreign exchange into Brazil. Operations governed by these regulations have a 361-day m in imum term and are exempt from income tax and from the taxes on credit, exchange, insurance operations, and securities operations. The CBB authorizes and registers external f inanc ing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BRAZIL Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment for imports of capital goods, intermediate goods, raw materials, and other goods and mer- chandise, regardless of the type of importer or the destination of the merchandise, if the operations have a term of at least one year. In private sector import operations without the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, the financing terms—interest rate, spread, and down payment —are freely contracted by the parties. In the case of a pub l ic sector entity and in cases invo lv ing the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, interest rates may not exceed the LIBOR rate for the reference period plus specified maximum spreads. Requests for authorization may be approved by the CBB, as long as there is no legal impediment to doing so. The proceeds of financial credits granted to residents must be kept w i th in the country, and the resources must be used for investment in economic activities. Exchange contracts involving the entry of foreign exchange in connection with borrowing are subject to prior approval by the CBB. Foreign loans of less than 90 days are subject to an IOF of 5%. Effective August 30, 2000, banks may borrow funds abroad to be applied freely in the do- mestic market. Effective March 1, 2001, registration of credit operations is made through an electronic system. Guarantees by nonfmancial juridical persons in credit operations for their foreign subsidiar- ies are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Exchange operations invo lv ing financial transfers abroad in the execution of bank sureties and guarantees are carried out exclusively through the floating exchange rate market when such guarantees relate or are linked to (1) imports and other foreign currency operations not covered by certificates issued by the CBB or by a facility; and (2) repatriation of amounts entering the country as advance payment for exports in the event of nonshipment of the goods. Exchange operations invo lv ing financial transfers associated w i th the execution of payment guarantees for imports, loans, or external financing covered by certificates of authorization or registration issued by the CBB are processed through the free exchange rate market. There are no controls on guarantees provided by nonresidents to residents in connection w i th foreign capital registered with the CBB, subject to the presentation of a formal state- ment by the foreign entity furn ish ing the guarantee. Data concerning the guarantee and the costs incurred in obtaining it are included in the Certificate of Authorization or Registration of the guaranteed operation. If costs are incurred in obtaining the guarantee, the credit operation must be authorized in advance by the CBB. There are no specific regulations governing other operations. In the event of execution of a guarantee, the beneficiary must arrange for the entry of the corresponding foreign exchange directly through the banking system. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may transfer up to US$5 m i l l i on for each financial group, including all remittances in the last 12 months, and they are basi- cally required to keep on file and make available to the CBB the documents mentioned in regulations. Transfers exceeding the established limit must first be submitted to the CBB no less than 30 days in advance of the exchange contract, regardless of the amount. Exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an entity belonging to the direct or indirect pub l ic administration are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. In this case, remittances must be processed through the free exchange rate market. Brazilian enterprises may invest in financial institutions abroad through the floating ex- change rate market. However, such investments by nonfmancial enterprises require prior approval of the CBB and must meet some specified conditions. Investments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior opinion of the CBB's Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy several conditions, especially ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment BRAZIL 141 with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, t ime in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Applications for the registration of foreign direct investment and technology are not subject to prior authorization. Investments in commercial banks are l im i ted to 30% of the voting capital, if there are controls on the operations of Brazilian banks in the markets where their main offices are located. The establishment in Brazil of new branches of f inanc ial ins t i tu- tions domiciled abroad is prohibited. Also, any increase in the percentage of equity partici- pation in financial institutions headquartered in Brazil by natural or ju r id ical persons resi- dent or domiciled abroad is prohibited, except for authorizations resulting from international agreements, from reciprocity arrangements, or in the interest of the Brazilian government as expressed by presidential decree. In the case of highway freight transportation, there are limitations on equity participation of up to one-fifth of the voting capital stock, except for companies established before Ju ly 11, 1980, to wh ich d i f fe rent rules apply. In fu tu re capital increases by subscription, however, such entities are required to pay up to four-f if ths of said increases in ordinary registered shares through national underwriters. Foreign participation in journa l is t ic and radio and television broadcasting enterprises is prohibited. Direct or indirect equity participation by foreign enterprises or capital in the health care sector in Brazil is also prohibited, except in special cases. The registration of foreign investment through the verification of patent or trademark rights as a means of paying in capital is subject to prior recording of the deed of transfer or as- signment of the rights to use the patent or trademark w i th the Na t ional Ins t i tu te of Indus t r ial Property, and is l im i ted to the value stated in the latter. The investment is registered in the currency of the country where the beneficiary is domiciled or headquartered, and must be requested from the CBB by the party receiving the investment. Foreign investments via the contribution of goods w i thout exchange cover are subject to electronic registration with the CBB and authorization by the SECEX. The goods, machin- ery, or equipment must be used in the production of goods or the provision of services, must have a useful l i fe of more than f ive years, and must be part of the enterprise's assets for at least f ive years. Investments through currency transfers are not subject to prior authorization. Th is type of investment may take place through the free exchange rate market to pay up the subscribed capital of enterprises already operating in Brazil, to organize a new enterprise, or to acquire an interest in an existing Brazilian enterprise. Branches of foreign companies may be opened, subject to the pr ior issuance of an authoriz- ing decree by the Minister of Development, Industry, and Commerce. A branch is consid- ered an office of a foreign enterprise. Enterprises established in Brazil with any degree of foreign equity participation are not covered by this restriction. The entry of resources associated with the investment must be processed through a banking ins t i tu t ion authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Effective September 4, 2000, all foreign direct investment must be registered w i th the CBB's DECEC through an electronic system. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans n.r. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G i f ts and endowments requ ire the approval of the CBB. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but documentary support is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 BRAZIL Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants The beneficiary must prove he or she is leaving Brazil def in i te ly, and certificates of the Secretariat of the Federal Revenue are requ ired. There are no controls, but documentary support is required. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Remittances for gamb l ing are not permitted. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Foreign borrowing for terms exceeding 360 days was subject to authorization and registra- t ion w i th the CBB. The CBB required that banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations obtain facilities abroad for terms of up to 360 days to extend commercial credit in Brazil. The National Bank for Economic and Social Development, private investment or develop- ment banks, commercial banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, and multipurpose banks w i th a commercial portfolio (if authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations and ho ld ing an investment or development portfolio) were permitted to contract loans abroad to be onlent to enterprises in Brazil by issuing commercial paper. They could also borrow abroad by issuing floating-rate notes, fixed-rate notes, floating-rate certificates of deposit, fixed-rate certificates of deposit, government bonds, and private bonds. Financial institutions in the National Rural Credit System could borrow abroad to finance costs, investment, or the marketing of agricultural and livestock production. Banks could raise funds abroad to be on lent to natural or ju r id ical persons to finance the construction or purchase of new real estate. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations could use fac i l i t ies contracted for terms exceeding 360 days w i th banks abroad to finance imports by resident enterprises. The public sector could engage in external credit operations for the settlement of internal debt. The rate of the IOF applied to lend ing opera- tions in foreign currency was zero. Effec t ive August 30, 2000, banks may borrow funds abroad to be applied freely in the domestic market. Effective March 1, 2001, registration of credit operation is made through an electronic system. There are no legal provisions authorizing banks or credit institutions headquartered in Brazil to grant financial loans to nonresidents or to purchase securities issued abroad for terms exceeding 360 days. This restriction does not apply to the foreign branches of Brazilian banks w i th regard to commercial credit. All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency, are nu ll and void. Consequently, banks are pro- hibited from granting foreign currency loans w i th in Brazil. However, th is regulation does not apply to the on lend ing of external foreign currency loans. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Domestic operations in foreign currencies are proh ib i ted, Open foreign exchange position limits The fo l low ing limits are in effect: ( 1) Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may hold long positions of up to $6 m i l l ion, inc lud ing all currencies and all of each bank's branches. Amoun ts exceeding th is ceiling have to be deposited with the CBB in dollars. The ce i l ing on banks' short ex- change position is un l im i ted, provided that the total amount of combined exposure in gold, assets, and liabilities in foreign exchange do not exceed 60% of each bank's adjusted net worth. Open positions in foreign exchange are not to exceed 60% of capital, and banks must increase capital by 50% of the excess of their open positions over 20% of capital. (2) For licensed dealers (brokerage firms; securities distributors; and credit, financing, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 143 inves tment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange pos i t ion is US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed. (3) Licensed tour ism agencies may not ma in ta in exchange positions, but they are requ i red to observe the daily operational ce i l ing (cash) of US$200,000; any surp luses have to be sold to licensed banks or dealers. (4) Providers of tourist accommodations may have cash holdings in foreign currencies of up to US$100,000 to meet the ir operational needs; any su rp lus has to be sold to licensed banks or dealers. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad Ins t i tu t ional investors may invest up to 10% of their technical reserves in investment fund shares abroad. Pr iva te social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of the ir reserves, together w i th other inves tmen ts up to the same ce i l ing, in shares of open companies, pub- l ic ly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open com- panies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquartered in MERCOSUR countries. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations January 1. Interest payments on all foreign loans contracted after January 1, 2000, are taxed at 15%. February 24. The NMC authorized insurance and re insurance companies and reinsurance brokers to operate foreign currency accounts. February 24. The NMC authorized reinsurance companies to open foreign exchange accounts. May 11. Advance deposits were required for imports in excess of $100,000 conducted through the LAIA. March 31. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase shares and other securities listed in the Brazilian stock market. March 1. Foreign investors were g iven access to der iva t ive markets for the first t ime. August 30. Banks were allowed to borrow funds abroad to be applied freely in the domestic market. Controls on direct inves tment September 4. All foreign direct inves tment must be registered w i th the CBB's DECEC through an electronic system. Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions August 30. Banks were allowed to borrow f u n ds abroad to be applied freely in the domestic market. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Controls on credit operations March 1. Registration of credit operations began to be made through an electronic system. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 1. E f fec t ive March 1, 2001, registration of credit operation is made th rough an electronic system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control The Brunei dollar is issued by the Brunei Currency Board (BCB) on ly against payments in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of S in- gapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei do l lar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each other's currency and have agreed to mu tual exchange at par and w i thout charge. They have instructed the ir banks to do the same w i th the ir customers. Any excess currency is repatriated regularly, w i th the issuing ins t i tu t ion bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other coun- try's currency. The BCB deals only in Singapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, w i th no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes da i ly buy ing and selling rates for electronic trans- fers and sight drafts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quotations for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei Darussalam must apply these rates for transactions w i th the general pub l ic for amounts up to B$ 100,000. Exchange rates for amounts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dollar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in B runei Darussalam. However, as a result of the CIA, foreign exchange risk can be hedged in terms of Singapore do l lars by resorting to fac i l i t ies available in that country, in c lud ing foreign currency fu tu res and op- tions traded on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, over-the-counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and the short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Brunei Darussalam is a member of the ASEAN. There are no formal exchange controls, but the MOF retains responsibility for exchange control matters. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 145 International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Darussalam, and gold dealers and jewelers spe- trade cifically authorized by the MOF may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 5% duty is levied on the importation of gold jewelry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for environmental, health, safety, security, or religious reasons. Except for cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, most imports are subject to tariff rates of up to 200%. Some 70% of items ( inc lud ing basic foodstuffs, construction materials, and edu- cational materials) are zero rated. Most other goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%, 15%, or 20%. Fireworks are subject to a 30% duty, while automobiles are subject to duties rang- ing between 40% and 200%, depending on engine size. In accordance with the CEPT scheme for the AFTA, Brunei Darussalam w i ll e l im ina te its ta r i f fs on imports from other ASEAN members by 2003, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanen t ly excluded from the plan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. n.a. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kerosene, rice, salt, and sugar. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests for all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments are subject to a 20% w i thho ld ing tax. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 147 Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment There are no sectoral controls, but activities relating to national food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local participation. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and industries that solely export may be fu l ly foreign-owned. Joint ventures are particularly encouraged in export- import industries and activities supporting such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Brunei citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, including sites destined for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aquaculture. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian lev. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement An amendment to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) effec t ive ly established a currency board arrangement. The deutsche mark was chosen as the peg currency, wh ich has since been replaced with the euro at the rate of lev 1.95583 per €1. The BNB is required to sell and purchase on demand and w i thout restriction currencies of EU member countries for leva on the basis of spot exchange rates that may not differ from the official exchange rate by more than 0.5%. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Balances rema in on clearing accounts ma in ta ined under former bilateral arrangements. These arrangements are now inoperative, and the only transactions that take place on clear- ing accounts are those that are in tended to settle the balances. Va lua t ion and settlement of the balances take place in convertible currencies. Controls on the use of domestic cur- rency Use of foreign exchange among resi- dents n.a. n.a. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative There are free-trade agreements w i th Turkey and the former Yugoslav R epub l ic of Macedonia. The latter came in to effect on Janua ry 1, 2000. There are arrangements w i th Albania, Cambodia, Guinea, the People's Democratic Repub- lic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic R epub l i c, Romania, and Syria. Bu lgar ia has ou ts tand ing transferab le r u b le accounts w i th Cuba, Mongolia, and Romania. The settlement of the deb it balance w i th Roman ia is under negotiation. Regional arrangements Bulgaria is a member of the CEFTA. Barter agreements and open accounts There are inactive agreements w i th the Is lam ic State of Afghan is tan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Tanzania. Adm in istrat ion of control Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the BNB, the customs administration, and the postal authorities. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 149 Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Four commercial banks that are in bankruptcy have outstanding debt-service arrears. Effective January 1, 2000, residents carrying out extracting, processing, or other transac- tions invo lv ing precious metals and stones as their business activity are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. These activities are included in the banking licenses of commercial banks. Residents carrying out external trade transactions with precious metals and stones are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. Natural persons may export and import freely precious metals and stones for personal use after declaring them to the customs authorities. All amounts exceeding personal use are subject to the trade provisions of the Customs Law. The export and import of precious metals and stones by ma il are prohibited. This p roh ib i- tion does not apply to the BNB and the commercial banks. Residents and nonresidents may export domestic or foreign currencies w i thout a declar- ation if the amount is below lev 5,000. Exports of lev 5,001 to lev 20,000 must be de- clared; nonresidents must also declare the origin of the funds. In the case of exports exceeding lev 20,000, residents must obtain a permit from the BNB, wh i le nonresidents may export the currency after declaration, provided the amount does not exceed the a- mount of imported and declared currency. In other cases, BNB permission is requ i red. Yes. Yes. Resident and nonresident natural persons may import unlimited amounts of domestic and foreign currency. Amounts exceeding lev 5,000 must be declared to customs. Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Residents may maintain these accounts in Bulgaria. Balances on these accounts earn inter- est at international market rates. The crediting and debiting of up to lev 5,000 in foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations. Transfers abroad may be made only by commercial banks after declaring, for statistical purposes, the reason for the transfer. For payments abroad, the declaration is submitted on the same day; for receipts, w i th in 10 days after the date of the bank statement. In cases where amounts exceed lev 20,000, the trans- ferer must submit documentation as prescribed in BNB regulations. If the transfer is related to transactions for which BNB registration is needed, the commercial bank w i ll ve r i fy the registration with the BNB. Held abroad Approval is not required, but prior registration with the BNB is necessary. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Prior registration with the BNB is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The crediting and debiting of these accounts are not subject to any regulations. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 BULGARIA Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Effective January 1, 2000, a registration regime is in effect that applies to natural gas and scrap, in addition to goods previously covered under nonautomatic licensing, such as narcotics, arms, and nuclear weapons. Licenses are required for imports of military hard- ware and related technologies, natural gas, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and nuclear materials, Pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesticides, unbottled alcohol, jewelry, rare and precious metals, asbestos, asbestos products, narcotic and psychotropic products, and gamb l ing machines. Imports of certain goods (dangerous substances with ozone-depleting potential, machinery and equipment for air conditioning using Freon 12, refrigerators, freezers, and other equip- ment using Freon 11 or 12) are banned for health and security reasons. Import tariffs range from zero to 74% and are calculated on a transaction-value basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. The maximum rate of import tariffs for nonagri- cultural goods is 30%, and for agricultural goods it is 74%. Certain products are allowed temporarily to be imported without customs duties w i th in specified quantities (active sub- stances for the production of insecticides, fungicides, and herbicides; some agricultural machinery and their spare parts; flour; and live breeding animals). Other products are allowed temporarily to be imported without customs duties (equipment; spare parts; information technology products; chemicals for environmental and emissions control; special installations for recovery of poisoned lands; substances, materials, and equ ipment for replacement of ozone-destruction technologies; equipment, machines, and spare parts used in mines and geological research activities; installations, equipment, and spare parts for production of energy from nontraditional alternative sources; and medical equipment for human and veterinary medicine). On January 1, 2000, the import surcharge was eliminated and the arithmetic mean tariff for all products was reduced to 13.76% from 15.2%. Also on that date, certain temporary import tariff quotas were abolished. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports of gold, silver, platinum and articles thereof; solutions; electronic scrap and other products containing precious metals; precious stones; and some varieties of wood must be registered with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Effective January 1, 2000, registration requirements were abolished for coal, petroleum, textiles, CDs, and ferrous and nonferrous metals and alloys. Special licenses are required for the settlement of outstanding balances of multilateral clearing arrangements. Export licenses are required for exports of m i l i tary hardware and related technologies, endangered flora and fauna, w i ld plants and animals, livestock, radio- active materials, crafts and antiques, seeds, untreated wood, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted w i th in two working days. Exports to the Federal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 151 R epub l ic of Yugoslavia of oil products and some chemical goods (containing dangerous substances) are banned for health and ecological reasons. The export ban on tobacco was e l im ina ted on Ap r il 30, 2000. Yes. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the export tax on unprocessed lumber and profiled lumber was e l im ina ted. W i thout quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Payments abroad for trade purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against appropriate documents that prove the necessity of the transfer. These remittances are free if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documen- tary evidence is requ ired. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Other payments Foreign workers' wages may be transferred abroad, provided they have paid the ir taxes. Yes. These payments are free if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documen- tary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Prior registration w i th the BNB is required to effect transfers related to the fo l low ing trans- actions between residents and nonresidents: (1) transactions with money market securities issued by nonresidents; capital market securities issued by nonresidents; shares in nonresi- dent companies; and all derivatives from the above mentioned investments; (2) granting of financial credit between residents and nonresidents; (3) opening of deposit accounts of residents w i th nonresident banks; and (4) p rov id ing collateral by residents to secure obliga- tions between nonresidents or obligations of residents taken up towards nonresidents. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Pr ior registration w i th the BNB is requ ired. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Prior registration w i th the BNB is required. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Prior registration with the BNB is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 BULGARIA On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Prior registration w i th the BNB is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Prior registration with the BNB is required. Controls on credit operations Financial credits Prior registration with the BNB is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior registration w i th the BNB is required. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements No. No. Prior permission of the MOF is required. Nonresidents may not purchase or own land. If they inherit land, they must dispose of it w i th in a three-year period. Loans Prior registration with the BNB is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domes- tic transactions. Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domes- tic transactions. Each bank is required to observe daily (1) a max imum ratio of up to 25% between its open position in any particular currency and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries; and (2) a max imum ratio of up to 60% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 153 Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. A free-trade agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia came into effect. January 1. Residents carrying out transactions involving precious metals and stones were obliged to register with the MOF w i th in 14 days of starting their activity. Imports and import payments January 1. The registration regime was also applied to goods previously covered under nonautomatic licensing. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The export tax on unprocessed lumber and profiled lumber was eliminated. January 1. The arithmetic mean tariff for all products was reduced to 13.76% from 15.2%. January 1. The registration of coal, petroleum, textiles, CDs, and ferrous and nonferrous metals and alloys was abolished. April 30. The export ban on tobacco was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burk ina Faso is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax There is a symmetrical bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU that must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. In addition, banks are allowed to charge an exchange commission of up to 2% on over-the-counter exchange for French francs. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to cover payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Burkina Faso is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. n.a. n.a. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists w i th in the framework of the WAMA between WAEMU members, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the authority to supervise foreign exchange transactions is delegated to authorized banks, wh ich are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that require prior approval from the MOF or the BCEAO invo lve residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and resident accounts abroad. The 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 155 BCEAO is also authorized to collect —either directly or through banks, f inanc ial insti- tutions, the postal administration, or jud ic ial agents—any information necessary to comp i le balance of payments statistics. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Restructuring of arrears to L ibya and the countries of the FSU is in progress. Imports of gold require prior MOF authorization. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manufac- tured articles containing m inor quantities of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declar- ation. Exports of gold are liberalized. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above th is ce i l ing requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. There are no restrictions on the importation by resident or nonresident travelers of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or w i th banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 BURKINA FASO Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior authorization of the MOF, upon recommendation from the BCEAO. Transfers of funds between nonres ident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited to cover purchases by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the o f f ic ial exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required to monitor quality and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A technical import visa (certificat de conformite) is required for sugar, insecticides, wheat and cereal flour, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, vegetable oil, m i lk, electrical batter- ies, food preserves, and rice. The Ministry of Commerce and the Promotion of Ventures and Crafts (un t il November 12, 2000, this was called the M in is try of Indus try, Commerce, and Crafts) may, on the basis of criteria established by the MOF, waive the prescribed for- malities for imports from countries w i th wh ich Burk ina Faso has concluded a customs un- ion or free trade-area agreement. Import licenses were eliminated and replaced with preimport declarations issued for all import operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and above. Imports of ivory and f ish ing nets w i th a mesh smaller than three square centimeters are restricted. On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a CET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are fur ther subject to a statistical tax of 1% and a community solidarity tax of 1%. A temporary protection tax of 15% (in certain cases 7.5%) may be levied on products upon the authorization of the WAEMU commission, if the effective protection rate has declined by more than 50% (or more than 25%). All imports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a solidarity communal levy of 1%, and imports of certain goods that are also locally produced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 10% to 30%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are excluded from the repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in one month of the date on wh ich payments fa ll due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO i s? Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes All export transactions of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those between WAEMU countries, must be domiciled w i th an authorized intermediary bank. Export licenses were eliminated and replaced w i th preexport declarations issued for exports valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to special regulations. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical duty of 3%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Transfers not exceeding CFAF 300,000 do not require supporting documents. Residents are required to pay through a licensed in termed iary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for the depreciation of direct investments requ ire the approval of the MOF, since depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide tests for the transfer of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion in foreign banknotes must be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Payments for medical costs and studies abroad are granted upon submission of supporting documentation to authorized banks. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions w i th non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. All proceeds from inv is ib le transactions w i th non-WAEMU member countries must be surrendered to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of the due date. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 300,000 that they br ing in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in eight days of the ir re turn. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All capital investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the f inanc ing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Authorization is not required to buy securities issued in WAEMU member states under RCPSFM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 BURKINA FASO Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions requ ire the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. The issuance and sale of securities in Bu rk ina Faso must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign securities by residents and the transfer abroad of funds for th is purpose are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These instruments, wh ich are v i r tua l ly nonexistent in Burk ina Faso, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase freely commodity and security call and put options abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on which payment falls due is not more than 120 days after the date of shipment. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose is subject to prior MOF authorization. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered, as well as the payment due date. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the BCEAO acting on behalf of the MOF and substantiated by documentation. There are no controls on these credits, but they must be reported for statistical purposes. The necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized agent. There are no controls on repayments of loans, provided that the authorized agent hand l ing the settlement is furnished with documentation attesting to the validity of the transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 159 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities; however, the funds involved must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment All investment abroad by residents is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. A. max imum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. Authorization is not required for purchases of foreign securities whose issuance or offer ing for sale in WAEMU member countries has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investment Inward investments must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements The liquidation of investments abroad must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Reinvestment of the proceeds from the liquidation is subject to prior MOF authorization. If reinvestment is not authorized, the proceeds from the liquidation must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Burk ina Faso is unrestricted but must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Investments abroad by residents requ ire prior authorization from the MOF. The investor must make the request in writing and designate the authorized intermediary that w i ll exe- cute the payment. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by de- posit to a foreign account in francs, it cannot be executed un t il after the period agreed to by the parties. Loans The same regulations apply as for securities and investments. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In general, inheritances and dowries are authorized; endowments require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Imm ig ran ts who have acquired resident status must obtain prior approval from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfer into the country by immigrants This requires authorization of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions The same regulations apply as for lending to nonresidents. Borrowing abroad Authorized agents are free to borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are authorized to open accounts with their correspondent banks for settling transactions for the ir own account or the account of their customers. However, banks are not authorized to hold amounts in these accounts that exceed their current requirements. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations invo lve commercial credits. Prior authorization from the MOF is required for financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are no regulations that apply specifically to these transactions. However, prior MOF approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 BURKINA FASO Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no distinction between resident deposit accounts, nonresident deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for foreign investments. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios. Open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments Changes During 2000 January L The customs duty rates of zero, 5%, 10%, and 20% plus taxes of 2% were introduced. A temporary protection tax may also be applied. November 12. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Crafts became the Ministry of Commerce and the Promotion of Ventures, and Crafts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bu rundi is the Bu rundi franc. There were two foreign exchange markets. The first market (the Bank of the Repub l ic of Burundi —BRB —window) comprised export proceeds from coffee and tea, wh ich amounted to about 95% of total export proceeds. The second market (the second window) was operated by foreign exchange bureaus. Effective Ju ly 1, 2000, a foreign exchange auction system was introduced, eliminating the dual foreign exchange market. Until July 1, 2000, the exchange rate of the Burundi franc was managed to limit the spread between the official exchange rate and the parallel market rate. On that date, a weekly for- eign exchange auction system was introduced. The BRB now sells foreign exchange at the auction to authorized dealers. At the end of each weekly session, a market exchange rate is obtained that serves as a reference rate for determining the buy ing and selling exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to officially operate in the foreign exchange market, but the second foreign exchange market has been eliminated. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. n.r. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements with these countries are effected through a clearing process, with balances paid in convertible currencies. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guesthouse in Burundi must pay their hotel b i l ls by selling convertible currencies or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the BRB and in the case of nationals of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo and Rwanda, who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the CEPGL. n.a. n.a. There are trade agreements with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. These agreements are not fu l ly operational due to the unfavorable economic situation. Regional arrangements Regional agreements exist w i th Eastern and Southern African countries. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 BURUNDI Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Clearing agreements exist with members of COMESA and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the BRB; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Natural jur id ical persons holding gold m in ing permits issued by the ministers responsible for m in ing and customs may open purchasing houses for gold in transit or m ined by artisans in Bu rund i. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates in effect at the time of declaration. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the m in ing and customs departments. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. A license is required for anyone not holding a foreign exchange account. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may b r ing in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in addition to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts The regulation pertaining to foreign exchange bureaus and foreign exchange accounts au- thorizes resident natural persons or legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited freely. Withdrawals of B u r u n di francs are un l im i ted. An a ir l ine ticket or other travel document is requ ired for withdrawals of foreign exchange in the form of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks up to the equiva- lent of $5,000 an operation. Supporting documentation is required for transactions invo lv- ing payments for imports of goods and services, withdrawals of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks in excess of the equivalent of $5,000. Foreign exchange accounts may bear interest freely. Yes. Authorized banks may freely open foreign exchange accounts, but must forward copies of relevant documents to the BRB. Prior BRB authorization is required to open these accounts. Yes. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 163 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Any nonresident natural or juridical person may open a foreign exchange account in an authorized bank. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts may be debited and credited freely. These accounts may bear interest freely. Amounts of less than or equal to $5,000 may be withdrawn in banknotes on presentation of travel documentation. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Advance import deposits have been suspended since 1999. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import and payment declarations for items that are eligible or ineligible for foreign exchange must be validated by a commercial bank. BRB approval is required in the case of waivers. All consignments of imports exceeding $5.000 c.i.f. in value may, in principle, be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. This organiza- tion w i ll also determine the value of goods used in the assessment of duty. There is no obligation to settle import transactions by LCs, since other payment methods are also permitted. This applies to imports of goods exceeding $5,000 in value. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures For imports of goods exceeding $500,000 in value, an international call for bids is required before the validation of the license. Positive list A list of products eligible for foreign exchange has been drawn up in agreement w i th the World Bank and the BRB. The import of products not on the list is, however, also author- ized. The distinction is in the financing, as products eligible for foreign exchange are fi- nanced by foreign exchange acquired on the market, wh i le the other products are financed by the commercial banks' own holdings. Negative list Imports of 100% cotton, printed cloth (pagne) are forbidden. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Bu rundi is a member of the COMES A. There are five customs duty bands (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMES A. Im- ports of petroleum products are subject to import duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, wh ich replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. A flat-rate profits tax of 4% is applied to all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be collected within 30 days of the date of export declaration at customs for shipment by air or w i th in 90 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 BURUNDI Surrender requirements collection of proceeds from exports of nontraditional products are set by the commercial bank carrying out the operation. Only proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton are requ ired to be surrendered to the BRB. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements A validation of the export declaration by a commercial bank is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Export taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally applicable rate is 5%. For green coffee, the rate is set each crop season. The export tax on all other types of coffee is 31%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments All payments for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to administer payments for invisible transactions. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Bu rundi francs w i th a Bu rundi insurer. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Un load ing and storage costs are limited to amounts indicated by the invoice. Investment-related payments Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the profits distributed to foreign directors after payment of taxes. A ir l ines are authorized to transfer abroad 100% of their earnings after deduction of local expenses. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for maintenance ex- penses). Transfers for income from rents and sale of real estate and transfers of profits and d iv idends are suspended. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on payments of interest. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks and the BRB grant foreign exchange for private and pub l ic travel, respectively. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks grant foreign exchange for personal payments w i th in the l im i ts of the ir available foreign exchange. Pension transfers are effected through the Social Security Institute. Yes. The l im it for medical costs was FBu 700,000, with additional transfers allowed upon pres- entation of invoices. Effective July 1, 2000, this l im it was set at the equivalent of $2,000. Allowances for studies abroad are authorized on a case-by-case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Transfers are covered on the second market except for workers on government contracts. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 165 Quantitative limits Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and wo rk ing in Bu rundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70% of their net annual income (80% in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50% of the ir production). Indicative limits/bona fide test A work contract is required, Credit card use abroad Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits n .r. Yes. Consulting and legal fees are l im i ted to amounts indicated by invoices. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require ind iv idual authorization. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase must be effected in foreign exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. n.r. n.r. Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. Purchase abroad by residents BRB authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. n.r. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 BURUNDI Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The provision of foreign exchange for outward direct investments is suspended. Even with the emergence of the free foreign exchange market, banks are not authorized to sell foreign exchange for outward direct investments. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted do not re- quire individual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Transfer of the proceeds from the sale of real estate is suspended unless the purchaser is the holder of an adequately funded foreign exchange account. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings n.r. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad BRB approval is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 167 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted on foreign exchange accounts. Prior approval of the BRB is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 1. A foreign exchange auction system was introduced, eliminating the dual foreign exchange market. July L The limit for medical expenses was set at $2,000 (previously FBu 700,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian riel. The dollar circulates freely and is used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official rate and the market rate. Ad- justments to the official exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) to l im it the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 1%. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the gov- ernment and state-owned enterprises. The NBC quotes daily official rates, at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia buys and sells foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy and sell for- eign exchange at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the NBC. The NBC is authorized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. No. No. The import or export of raw gold is subject to prior declaration to the NBC if the value of each transaction equals or exceeds $10,000. The export of means of payment equa l ing or exceeding $10,000 in foreign exchange or its equ iva lent in domestic currency by a traveler must be declared to customs officers at border crossings of Cambodia. Domestic currency Yes. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 169 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports are subject to prior notification to the NBC. The same regulations apply as for exports. Yes. There are no l im i ts, but imports exceeding $10,000 or equ iva lent must be declared on entry. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts There are no limits on the balances of these accounts, and the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations. All transactions may be settled in foreign currency. n.r. Yes. Balances exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 must be declared to the NBC. Nonresident Accounts Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Authorized intermediaries may be required by the NBC to submit proof of payment of im- ports by banker's order in support of their applications to purchase foreign exchange, and later may also be required to provide various documentary evidence con f i rm ing the entry of goods into the country. When the collection is made, the proceeds from exports of goods or services shall be credited to the exporter's account with the domiciled bank in accordance w i th the existing law. Preshipment inspection is aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of volume, qua l i ty, and price. Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of national security, health, environmental well-being, or pub l ic morality. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import duties are levied, and an excise tax of 10% applies to selected imports. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 CAMBODIA Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Dom i c i l i a t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters or importers of goods and services must make payments for their commercial transactions w i th the rest of the world through authorized intermediaries. No. Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. The proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account w i th a dom ic i led bank in accordance w i th the existing law. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed t imber, logs, and rice. Exports of garments, gems, and rice to the Un i ted States and all exports of sawed t imber are subject to quotas. Exports of antiques and several categories of logs are restricted. An export tax of 10% of the estimated market va lue applies to exports of t imber and other selected exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv i s ib les related to trade are not restricted, but are regulated by the Investment Law. Payments for travel Quantitative limits An exchange allowance of $10,000 a person is granted at the off ic ial rate for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay; amounts in excess of this l im it must be approved by the NBC. In practice, however, there are no l im i ts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements The proceeds from exports of goods and services must be credited to the exporter's account w i th a dom ic i led bank, in accordance w i th existing laws. Surrender requ i remen ts Only proceeds from inv is ib les earned by state-owned enterprises must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts There are no specific laws on capital market securities, and there are no securities markets in Cambodia. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 171 Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment The requirement of government approval is not enforced. Inward direct investment Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for Development of Cambodia, but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign direct investment taking place in accordance w i th the provisions of the investment law of Cambodia may be transferred freely. However, such transfers have to be made through authorized intermediaries, wh ich must report to the NBC all amounts equal to or exceeding $100,000. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Yes. Transfer of assets Such operations must take place through authorized intermediaries. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Authorized intermediaries must prov ide the NBC w i th periodic statements of transfers or settlements and of outflows and inf lows of capital carried out between Cambodia and the rest of the wor ld. Any export of foreign currency banknotes by authorized in termed iar ies is subject to prior declaration to the NBC. Loans and borrowing, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disburse- ments and repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. However, in the event of foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be imp lemen ted for a max imum period of three months, imposing certain temporary restrictions on the activity of authorized intermediaries, particularly on certain transactions specified in the law, the ir foreign exchange position, or any loans in domestic currency extended to nonresidents. Banks may lend to nonresidents doing business w i th in Cambodia. Banks are required to ma in ta in at all times a max imum ratio of 20% between the ir over- all exposure resulting from the ir operations with each ind iv idual beneficiary and the ir net worth. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 CAMBODIA In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long position in any single foreign currency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of the bank's net worth. Residents and nonresidents are not treated d ifferen t ly. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no institutional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. The commission levied by commercial banks is freely set by each bank. However, such commission does not apply to government operations, transfers in settlement of imports covered by an import declaration domiciled w i th a bank, scheduled repayments of loans properly obtained, and travel allowance or representation expenses paid for official missions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market n.r. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements There are clearing arrangements in the context of the CEEAC. Barter agreements and open accounts n.r. Administration of control International security restrictions Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries (i.e., the Postal Adm in- istration and authorized banks). Exchange bureaus are also authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions. There are no such restrictions under the legislation in force. However, in practice, decisions are taken in accordance w i th the resolutions of the international commun i ty (IMF, UN, etc.). 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 CAMEROON Payment arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe lry in Cameroon. Approval of the M in is t ry of Mines, Water, and Energy (MM WE) is required to hold gold in any other fo rm. Such approval is no rma l ly given only to indus t r ial users, inc lud ing jewelers. New ly m ined gold must be declared to the MMWE, wh ich authorizes e i ther its exportation or its sale to domestic indus t r ial users. Exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization of the MMWE and the MEF, al- though such au thor iza t ion is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from th is requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold- f i l led or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to customs declaration. Exports of all coins and banknotes are sub ject to a prior declaration. All res ident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing all means of pay- ment at the ir disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; reexportation above this ce i l ing requires documen ta t ion show ing e i ther the impor ta t ion of foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. Resident travelers are authorized to import in to Cameroon a m ax imum of CFAF 300,000 to cover the ir in i t i al expenses upon the ir return to Cameroon. Foreign currency Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks. Held domestically Approval required Yes. The opening of foreign exchange accounts exclusively for use by enterprises in the strategic sector (petroleum), wh ich are also allowed to maintain the ir accounts in a foreign currency, is sub ject to the prior authorization of the MEF. Held abroad The opening and ma in tenance of accounts abroad are fo rb idden. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted On ly accounts of CFA francs convertible into foreign currency are permitted. Approval required n .r. Domestic currency accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Since the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c ircu la t ing outside its ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 175 zone of issue, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFA francs. Nonres iden ts are allowed to ma in ta in bank accounts in euros. These accounts, he ld m a in ly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and the ir nonresident employees, may be credited only w i th (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of fore ign currencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonres ident euro accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited on ly for (1) purchases of fore ign currencies; (2) transfers to other non res ident euro accounts; and (3) payments to residents in accordance w i th exchange regu la t ions. Nonres iden ts may not ma in ta in accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Convertible into foreign currency Such accounts may be credited and debited on ly in fore ign cu r rency. Prior au tho r iza t ion of the MEF is requ i red. Blocked accounts n . r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Import payments are made in accordance with the terms of the unde r ly ing contracts. How- ever, advance paymen ts (i.e., before the actual de l ive ry of goods) are authorized up to 50% of the va lue of imports. M i n im um financing requirements There are no res tr ic t ions on import f inanc ing. The amoun ts to be transferred must corre- spond to those contained in the pe r t inent import declaration. Advance payment requirements Up to 50% of p re f inanc ing is au thor ized; the balance is au thor ized on ly upon presen ta t ion of the pertinent trade documents. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted if stipulated by und e r ly ing contracts. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements All import transactions for domestic consump t ion va lued at more than CFAF 2 m i l l i on must be dom ic i led w i th a licensed bank. Transactions i n v o l v i ng goods in trans it must be dom ic i led w i th a bank in the country of f inal des t ina t ion. Preshipment inspection All imports are subject to inspec t ion by the Societe genera te de su rv e i l l an ce (SGS). Letters of credit LCs are a l lowed but are optional. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Import licenses are almost totally abolished. Importers of more than CFAF 2 m i l l ion are required to f i ll out an import declaration w i th the SGS. The impo r t ing of certain products, wh ich are included on a list established each year by the M in is try of Indu s t r ial and Com- mercial Development (MINDIC), remains subject to licensing. A list of products s t i ll subject to au thor iza t ion is pub l ished annu a l ly by the M IND IC in the Programme generate des echanges. Certain imports are p roh ib i ted for ecological, health, or safety reasons. Such licenses are ava i lab le especially for long-term supp ly contracts. Quotas are applicable to imports by container. Import ta r i f fs range from 5% to 30%. Import surcharges apply on ly to imports from coun- tries outside the UDEAC. Taxes collected through the exchange system Surcharges apply on ly to impor ts from coun tr ies ou ts ide the UDEAC and to imports of maize meal and cement. State import monopo ly There is a state import monopo ly on ly for imports re la t ing to sovereign expend i tu re (such as defense and security). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 CAMEROON Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from the repatriation re- qu iremen t. However, waivers may be granted by the President of the Repub l ic to compa- nies of a strategic nature and representing the national interest. Export proceeds must be surrendered within the eight-day period following repatriation. No. For exports of fresh food products (vegetables, fruits), a health certificate is required before shipment. Exports to all countries are subject to dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts for the appropriate docu- ments. Export transactions valued at CFAF 2 m i l l i on or more must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for all exports va lued at the equ iva lent of at least CFAF 2 m i l l i o n. Export licenses are issued by the MEF. Yes. Export taxes established in the Budget Law are collected by the Directorate of Customs. An export tax of 17.5% is applied to timber, and a rate of 12.5% is applied to the log equ iva lent of processed woods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments in excess of CFAF 2 m i l l ion for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv i- dends, and royalties. W i th the exception of insurance expenses, agents may obtain authorization for the payment of all other trade-related expenses. The payment of such expenses is authorized upon presentation of invoices and related documents when the latter are not taken into account in the basic commercial contract. Yes. Yes. Distributed profits, dividends, and other interest paid by residents to nonresidents may be transferred. Yes. Transfers are authorized on the basis of conventions, contracts, m inu tes of annual meetings (as regards profits and dividends), and loan repayment schedules (as regards interest). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Authorization is required for any acqu is i t ion of foreign currency by residents t rave l ing to countries other than member countries of the franc zone. The l im it on foreign exchange allowances for travelers was increased to $10,000 from $1,000 a person a trip. The number of trips allowed is no longer l im i ted. Re turn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arr ival at customs and to surrender them w i t h in eight days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 177 Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners work ing in Cameroon are authorized to transfer up to 50% of the ir remunera t ion upon presentation of the ir pay slip and the ir most recent statement of income. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test L im i ts are determined on the basis of the supporting documents provided. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of supporting documents provided. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected w i th in one month of the due date. Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered within one month of collection. Re turn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them w i th in the fo l low ing eight-day period. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital transactions between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries re- qu ire exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of con- trols, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions are permitted, provided declaration is made to the MEF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires pr ior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. Exempt from au- thorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection w i th shares s im i lar to securities, when the ir issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. All foreign securities and titles embody ing c la ims ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 CAMEROON on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Transactions in money market ins trumen ts requ ire authorization from the MEF. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On collective investment securities Prior declaration to the MEF is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n . r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether pub l ic or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans of up to CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6% a year. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose nor- mal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Camer- oon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. The following are, however, exempt from th is authorization and requ ire only a report: (1) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the f inanc ing of com- mercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions; and (3) loans backed by a guarantee from the government. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The authorization of the MEF is required. To residents from nonresidents Prior declaration is required. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad ( inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment CAMEROON 179 subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon) require prior approval of the MEF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits or do not exceed 20% of the fair market value of the company being purchased. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon ( inc lud ing those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsid- iaries of foreign companies in Cameroon) require prior declaration to the MEF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the MEF has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing wh ich it may request postponement. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Cameroon requires only a report to the MEF, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had prev i- ously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MEF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Pr ior declaration to the MEF is required. Sale locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MEF is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Loans, except for those representing an authorized investment, those relating to the prov i- sion of services or to the financing of commercial transactions, and those for amounts not exceeding CFAF 500,000, are subject to the prior authorization of the MEF. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies The authorization of the MEF is required for transfers related to these operations, By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Prior authorization of the MEF is required, Transfer of assets n. r. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Correspondent accounts are permitted. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Only deposits in convertible CFA francs are permitted for nonresidents, Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on inves tment por tfo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 CAMEROON Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Art ic le V I II Article XIV Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Independently floating The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities intervene from time to t ime to promote orderly conditions in the market. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are determined freely in the exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Canada is a member of the NAFTA. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada maintains certain restrictions on the transfer, remittance, or assignation of money, checks, bank deposits, and other financial instruments held by, on behalf of, or in an ac- count of the government of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, Canada imposes restrictions on f inan- cial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina and a freeze on disputed property situated in Canada, including the assets of all the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. Further- more, a freeze is imposed on the assets of f ive former Yugoslav government off ic ia ls in- dicted by the In terna t ional C r im inal Tr ibunal for the former Yugoslavia. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing m inor quan t i t ies of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 CANADA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes, Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are frozen, pursuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Although the sanctions against Libya have been suspended by the UN Security Council, Canadian regulations remain in effect. Transactions allowed by ministerial certificates are conducted on a routine basis. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Measures consistent with international trade obligations (e.g., antidumping and countervail- ing duties) are in place. Following a review of Canada's trade remedy system, legislative changes were made, effective May 31, 2000, including a requirement that authorities con- sider, under some circumstances, competition policy factors as well as other economic costs associated with the imposition of antidumping duties. Import permits are required for the importation of certain agricultural products, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy, certain military arma- ments, and certain internationally controlled drugs. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered with it. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited, except from the United States. The prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico w i ll be phased out by January 1,2019. Yes. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usually in the form of bilateral re- straint agreements concluded under the MFA negotiated w i th in the framework of the GATT, are also subject to quantitative restrictions. In accordance w i th the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Canada's system of import con- trols on textiles and clothing is being liberalized in stages over a 10-year period beg inn ing January 1, 1995. As a result of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agree- ment, Canada replaced all agricultural import restrictions with tariff rate quotas to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round (or under the NAFTA). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 183 Import taxes and/or tar i f fs No. State import monopo ly Certain monopolies exist at the federal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requ irements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas The Export Control List iden t if ies all goods that are controlled in order to imp lement inter- governmental arrangements, ma in ta in supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items iden t if ied in the In terna t ional Mun i t ions List, the International Dual Use List, and the Inter- na t ional A tom ic Energy List. In add i t ion, controls are maintained for supply reasons to ensure the orderly export marke t ing of certain products that are subject to import l im i ta- t ions by other countries; to promote fu r ther processing in Canada (e.g., of logs and herr ing roe); and for nonpro l ifera t ion purposes (i.e., chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to wh ich all exports are controlled. At present, Angola and Myanmar are on the Area Control List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the Un i ted States, as we ll as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List, unless otherwise exempted. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tions, transportation, financial, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provision of the Inves tment Canada Act, new foreign investments are generally subject to notification requ iremen ts but not to review requ iremen ts. For WTO investors, only direct acquisitions of businesses w i th assets exceeding Can$209 m i l l i on are subject to review. Indirect acquisi- tions are no longer subject to review, except in rare circumstances. These provisions were mu l t i la te ra l ized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round results. D i f fe rent thresho lds app ly in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 CANADA cu l tura l ly sensitive sectors. All investments subject to review are required to pass a test prov ing that they w i ll be of net benefit to Canada. The establishment of a new business, the direct acquisition of a business w i th assets of less than Can$209 m i l l ion, and the indirect acquisition of a business by investors from WTO members are not subject to review and need only be notified, except in cases when the Canadian business represents 50% or more of the va lue of the total assets acquired in the international acquisition. (The acquisition of a Canadian enterprise may be considered "direct" when it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation carrying on a Canadian business and "indirect" when it involves the transfer of control by share acquisition of a non-Canadian corporation that controls a Canadian corporation carrying on a Canadian business.) The direct acquisition of a business whose assets exceed the above-mentioned l im it is re- viewed and assessed according to its net benefit to Canada, authorization being generally granted. All acquisitions or investments to establish a new business in cultural sectors such as book pub l ish ing, sound recording, and f i lm production are norma l ly subject to review. Reviewable cases must be resolved w i th in 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer time period. In practice, most cases are resolved w i th in 45 days. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Sale locally by nonresidents There are no controls; however, w i thho ld ing taxes apply. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Banks are l im i ted in the type of entities they can invest in domestically or abroad when the investment leads to the ownership of more than 10% of the voting rights of all shares outstanding, to the ownership of more than 25% of shareholders' equity, or to control of the entity. No controls are placed on the ownership of banks that specifically preclude nonresident ownership. However, there is a general prohibition on any person, resident or nonresident, directly own ing more than 10% of all outstanding shares of any class of shares of a bank. A l though larger banks must remain w ide ly he ld, new legislation w i ll allow f it and proper investors to own up to 20%, provided they do not control the bank. Any person, inc lud ing nonresidents, may set up or acquire a smaller bank, subject to m in is ter ial approval. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments May 31. Fo l low ing a review of Canada's trade remedy system, legislative changes were made, including a requirement that authorities consider, under some circumstances, compe- t i t ion policy factors as well as other economic costs associated w i th the impos i t ion of anti- dump ing duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to the euro at the rate of CVEsc 110.27 per €1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange w i th the general pub l ic are conducted by the three commercial banks: Banco Commercial do Atlantico (BCA), Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV), and the Banco Totta e Asores. Proceeds from inv i s ib les must be repatriated in convertible currencies. n.a. n.a. There are agreements w i th Sao Tome and Principe, under wh ich Cape Verde is a net creditor. There are agreements w i th Angola and Cuba, under wh ich Cape Verde is a net creditor. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV), the central bank. Current account transactions, investments in securities, and for- eign borrowing and lend ing in connection w i th current transactions have been l ibera l ized. International security restrictions n.a. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) There are external arrears to Russia and Spain, for which rescheduling negotiations are under way. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require pr ior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is permitted up to a l im it of CVEsc 20,000 a person a tr ip. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency CAPE VERDE Residents traveling abroad may take out the equivalent of CVEsc 1 m i l l ion (approximately $10,000). The importation of domestic currency is permitted up to specified limits. Foreign travelers may import foreign currency up to specified l im i ts. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The operation of these accounts is free, but must follow BCV regulations. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened and operated as demand or term deposit accounts. Term deposit accounts may be maintained for no more than one year. Approval is required to open these accounts. Nonresidents may open nonremunerated demand deposit accounts in local currency. The operation of these accounts is free, but must fo l low BCV regulations. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods exceeding CVEsc 100,000 and not invo lv ing payments from the coun try's foreign exchange resources are subject to a preregistration requirement. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Licenses, wh ich are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the M in is try of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the BCV and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Licenses are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development- related equipment. Imports with a value of less than CVEsc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Positive list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs A tariff protection scheme is in effect, prov id ing tariff protection for certain domestically produced sensitive goods in the order of 50%. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 187 Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months, but th is period may be extended. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Purchases in excess of CVEsc 1 m i l l i on in foreign currency a person a tr ip are subject to the submission of appropriate supportive documents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized w i th in the l im i ts specified in the ind iv idual contracts. These contracts, as well as other con- tracts invo lv ing foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib les must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 CAPE VERDE Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transactions, except those for investments in securities and foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current account transactions, must be approved in advance by the BCV. Transactions between residents and nonresidents through the CECV are free. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. These instruments do not exist. Foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberal- ized. However, these transactions are subject to verification by institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange or by the BCV. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inward direct investment For direct investments exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent, a permit is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 189 Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad These accounts may be freely opened and operated. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Reserve requirements Credit controls Accounts in foreign exchange constitute the assessment base. Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits The BCA and the CECV are allowed net foreign exchange positions of up to the equ iva lent of $1.5 m i l l ion and $1 million, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Central African Repub l ic is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25% is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, as allowed by the fixed peg with the euro, exporters and importers may always cover their position on the Paris foreign ex- change market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Central African Republic is linked to the French Treasury through an Opera- tions Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in French francs. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. On Ap r il 29, 2000, the CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Ministry for the Econ- omy, Finance, Planning, and International Cooperation (MEFPI). The Debt Directorate of the MEFPI supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Repub l ic; and inward and outward direct invest- ment. Exchange control is administered by the MEFPI, wh ich has delegated some ap- proval authority to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, granting of 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 191 exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the re- patriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the M in is try of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. n.a. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Cer- tain companies have been off ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CEMAC country to another. Exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC zone are prohibited. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from another CEMAC country. Imports of banknotes from outside the CEMAC zone are prohibited. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The pr inc ipal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in euros. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC member countries, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required for coffee, cotton, and diamonds. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import declarations are required for all imports, and the import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Taxes and duties on sugar imports must be paid in advance. Negative list Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CEMAC CET applies. There are four rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inputs, 20% for intermediates, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra-CEMAC tariff is 20% of the CET. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds must be collected and repatriated w i th in one month of the due date, wh ich must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at the ir destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection for coffee is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a declaration. Yes. A single export tax is applied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 193 trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Yes. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Yes. Yes. Residents traveling to other countries of the franc and euro areas may obtain an un l im i ted allocation in French francs. Within the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes may be exported without l im i t. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing limits: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, max imum CFAF 2 m i l l i on a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, maximum CFAF 5 m i l l ion a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MEFP1 or, by delegation, the BEAC. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regard- less of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required to prove that such means of payment have been purchased w i th funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of the l im i ts are norma l ly granted. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval is not required for costs covering studies abroad. The allowance for sick persons traveling to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons is CFAF 100,000 a day, m ax imum CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion. For studies abroad, the l im it is CFAF 1 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative l im i ts or bona fide tests are applied to medical costs and the costs of study abroad. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign nationals working in the CEMAC are allowed to transfer 50% of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in three months of the pay period concerned. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEFPI, is limited to the ceilings set for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of limits are normally granted. Other payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Surrender requ i remen ts services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i t h in one mon th of the due date. If payment is received in fore ign cu r rency, it mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movemen ts between the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, France, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun tr ies are perm i t ted free ly. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic requ ires p r ior authorization from the MEFPI. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, how- ever, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the govern- ment; and (2) shares s im i l ar to securities, when the issu ing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic has prev ious ly been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lend ing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of ju r id i c al persons in the Cen- tral African Repub l ic whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPI. Exempt from th is au thor iza t ion are (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l- l ion for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from au thor iza t ion and each repayment must be reported to the Off ice of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions w i t h in 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. Foreign bo r row ing by the government or its p u b l ic and s em ipub l ic enterprises, as we ll as all foreign bo r row ing w i th a government guarantee, requires the pr ior approval of the Di- rector of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of ju- r id ical persons in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic whose registered office is abroad requires pr ior authorization from the MEFPI. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans constitut- ing a direct inves tment abroad for wh ich pr ior approval has been obtained, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans d i rec t ly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between the Central A f r ican Repub l ic and countries abroad, or between foreign coun tr ies in wh ich those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 195 must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the opera- tion, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad, including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic, require the prior approval of the MEFPI, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments must be declared to the MEFPI, unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MEFPI may request a postponement of up to two months from receipt of the declaration. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of investments requires prior approval from the MEFPI, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 29. The CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate and are free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. All transfers and exchange opera- tions are subject to a commission levied by the Treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25% in the CFA franc zone and 0.5% outside the CFA franc zone. No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the MOF. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. On April 29, 2000, the CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF, but it has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instruc- tions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through authorized banks. The MOF supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 197 International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the MOF and the Direc- torate of Geological and M in ing Research, as we ll as a v isa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from th is requ i rement are (1) imports and exports by, or on behalf of, the monetary au thor i t ies; and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con ta in ing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as go ld - f i l led or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported on ly to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside that of the BEAC is prohibited. Nonresidents trave l ing from one BEAC member country to another may take w i th them an un l im i ted amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an u n l im i t ed allocation in French francs. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, trave ler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation depends on the type of travel and may be made in banknotes, trave ler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of Operations Account countries. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but p r ior approval is requ ired. Pr inc ipal nonres ident accounts are fore ign accounts in francs. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 CHAD outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to countries outside the BEAC must be domiciled with*an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of sulphur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with four tariff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received w i th in 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions to foreign countries exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 199 Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, nonresi- dents, except diplomatic missions and the ir staff, international organizations and the ir staff, agencies w i th equ iva lent status and the ir staff, as we ll as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area coun tr ies for less than a year), are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not CFA franc zone members without prior authorization from the proper authorities. They may, however, receive transfers from abroad. A simple declaration is required for transfers to countries outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior authorization must be obtained from the competent authorities. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, wh ich are required to execute promptly all du ly documented transfer orders and to dispatch cable transfers w i th in 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Insurance on all imports w i th f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged w i th local insurance companies by the importer. Yes. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Travelers —civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc. —must use the fo l low ing payment instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is subject to prior authorization from the relevant administrative authorities. Residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for tourism, sporting events, participation in expositions, organization of fairs, participation in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a max imum of CFAF 4 m i l l ion a person a trip for those over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents trav- eling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for business may obtain an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a max imum of CFAF 10 m i l l ion a tr ip. C iv il servants and government employees traveling on official business to countries outside the CFA franc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tourists, but only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a l im it of CFAF 4 m i l l ion. For amounts exceeding these limits, higher exchange allocation is subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Yes. Yes. For countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation for medical costs is equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a limit of CFAF 5 million. For studies abroad, the exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is equivalent to a three- month scholarship p lus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the ho lder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l i o n. H igher exchange allocations are subject to the presentation of suppor t ing documents. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 CHAD Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Additional special controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; inward and outward direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. W i th the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of for- eign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad or in the CEMAC for amounts exceeding CFA 10 m i l l ion requires prior authorization from the MOF. If authorization is granted, the transactions carry a state guarantee. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents CHAD 201 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing requires prior MOF authorization. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f irms concerned, or with the financing of commercial transactions either be- tween Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total outstanding amount of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior MOF authorization. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for wh ich pr ior ap- proval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the financing of commer- cial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in wh ich these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total outstanding amount of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Investments requ ire the pr ior approval of the MOF. Investments requ ire the pr ior approval of the MOF, unless they take the fo rm of a m ixed- economy enterprise. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The f u ll or partial l iqu id a t ion of direct investments in Chad must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. Loan transactions between residents and nonresidents exceeding CFA 5 m i l l i on require prior MOF au thor iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 CHAD By residents to nonresidents Loans granted by resident natural persons to nonresidents require central bank authorization and no t if ica t ion to the MOF 30 days before the loan is to be transacted. To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Yes. n .r. n.r. n .r. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Prov is ions spec i f ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Au thor ized banks may freely borrow from abroad. These transactions, however, must be declared to the MOF and central bank 30 days in advance. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. n .r. n.r. n.r. n.a. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 29. The CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of March 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 27, 1977. Currency Exchange rate structure Un i tary Classification Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. There are two foreign exchange markets, but the exchange rate p reva i l ing in both markets is the same: (1) the off ic ial market, through which all current payments and authorized capital transactions, including loan receipts, must be transacted; and (2) the informal mar- ket, through wh ich all transactions not required to be channeled through the fo rmal market take place. The o f f ic ial foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks and ex- change houses licensed by the Central Bank of Chile (CBC). Independen t ly floating The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements No. No. Free access is given for the purchase of dollars through forward contracts in the forward exchange market. Banks inform the CBC da i ly about their domestic operations. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Currenc ies listed in the Compend ium of International Foreign Exchange Regulations are permitted, wh i le operations with other currencies requ ire a special authorization from the CBC. n.a. n.a. Settlements between Ch i le and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts ma in- tained with each other by the CBC and the central banks of each of the countries concerned w i t h in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange market regulations and the ir administration are the responsibility of the CBC. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized dealers, but ordinary transactions in gold trade between p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unres tr ic ted, subject to no rmal export and import fo rma l i t ie s. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 CHILE Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Both natural and juridical persons may hold foreign currency checking accounts. The average balance is subject to legal reserve requirements. Juridical persons must take into account legal restrictions on investments, given their commercial activities (i.e., pension funds administrators). In the case of checking accounts, the commercial banks must cer t ify the domicile reported. Jur id ical persons subject to regulations on investment abroad (i.e., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Checking accounts may not be held by nonresidents because holders must be domiciled in the country. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports There is a period of 360 days during which foreign exchange may be bought in the for- mal market after the obligation's expiration date has been documented on the import declaration. Foreign exchange may be bought on both the official and the informal markets. U n t il Feb- ruary 28, 2001, payments made through the formal foreign exchange market required a CBC-issued import report, which had to be obtained from and processed through a local commercial bank as intermediary. Effective March 1, 2001, import declarations issued by the National Customs Service (NCS) are needed to purchase foreign exchange in the formal exchange market. Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural or jur id ical persons may engage in import activities. Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Un t il February 28, 2001, the CBC was allowed to reject import reports if prices were not market prices. Effective March 1, 2001, the CBC no longer issues import reports, and these transactions are made through the NCS. All imports above US$3,000 require an import report issued by the NCS. Imports of used motor vehicles are restricted. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to after-duty price margin l im i ts. Safeguards, antidumping, and countervailing duty laws are applied. The un i fo rm tariff is being reduced by 1 percentage point a year so as to reduce it to 6% (from 10% in 1999) by 2003. Imports are subject to a un iform 8% tariff rate w i th a few exceptions (including items imported from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 205 State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Generally, export receipts do not have to be brought back into the country; however, the exporter should inform the CBC on the use of the proceeds. A share of receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper company) must be deposited in the account of the Copper Stabilization Fund at the CBC; withdrawals are permitted on ly under prescribed circumstances. Exports may be financed w i th advances from foreign buyers or with external or internal credits, as agreed between the trading parties. Credits must be identified with shipments and paid after proceeds are received. Un t il February 28, 2001, an exporter had to submit an export report to the CBC through a commercial bank or directly on the CBC's webpage, establishing the exporter's iden t i ty and the terms of the operation. Effective March 1, 2001, the requirement to submit an ex- port report to the CBC was abolished. The commercial bank that receives the letter prior to payment of the foreign exchange w i ll demand from the exporter the shipping documents of the merchandise and the additional requirements established in the LC. Yes. Inspections are made by customs agents, who perform the role of "customs m in is ters of faith"; subsequently, a shipment order is issued, wh ich is subject to customs control. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments There are no controls on the transfer of interest payments. Prior approval Credit card use abroad Transfers of profits require the authorization of the CBC for access to the formal market. In the case of loans, the purchase of currency for amortization may be made in either the formal or the informal exchange market. In the case of capital repatriation, permission must be obtained from the CBC for access to the formal exchange market. The CBC authorizes the commercial banks to issue credit cards. Card users must pay bal- ances due for purchases abroad with their own resources. However, under the concept of extraordinary expenditures, each person may acquire foreign exchange in the formal market without declaring the purpose. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from selected transactions (e.g., royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade) are subject to a 100% surrender requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 CHILE Controls on cap i tal transactions E f fec t ive May 4, 2000, the one-year w i thho ld ing period requ i rement for foreign inves tmen ts was e l im ina ted for certain types of investments. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in domestic securities in three ways: (1) Through acqu is i t ion by foreign inves tment funds (FICE). These are formed by fore ign capital and administered by an open society established in Chile. Investments may not ex- ceed 5% of the social capital in any one company and 10% of a f u n d 's total assets. These f u n ds may not invest more than 40% of the ir portfolios in equ i t ies of the same ho ld ing period, and all FICEs as a group may not hold more than 25% of the equities of the same open society. Other requ iremen ts for FICEs are a five-year m i n im um ho ld ing period, a prof it tax of 10%, and some portfolio restrictions that vary w i th the dura t ion of the ho ld ing period; (2) Through f inanc ial inves tmen ts (purchase of fixed-income securities and equities). These are subject to the general income tax law. Equities that have American Depository Receipts (ADRs) may be acquired in the country and converted into ADRs. The issuance of primary ADRs is exempt from the above restrictions, but the issuers are subject to m i n im um inter- national rating requirements. Holders of ADRs are permitted to participate in preferential share offerings, changing shares thus acquired into ADRs; and (3) Through loans. These may also be used to finance the purchase of securities in the country. They are subject to a 4% tax on interest payments, and a 1.2% stamp du ty. The sale of equ i t ies that are the property of foreigners due to the ADR mechanism is possi- ble, since Chilean ADRs can be converted into domestic stock. However, the resources obtained through the sale must be repatriated. ADRs issued from equities directly acquired in the Ch i lean stock market (also called secondary ADRs) have certain restrictions regard- ing the authorized period for acquiring stocks domestically and for the authorized period for acqu i r ing foreign exchange after a local stock sale. Issuance of foreign securities by nonresidents is subject to the same procedures applied to domestic securities. In practice, no foreign securities are traded domestically. Once the respective taxes have been paid, profits may be transferred freely w i thout delay. Except for banks and pension funds, there are no controls on the acquisition of international f ixed - income assets and current account deposits. Pension funds are authorized to hold up to 16% of the ir funds in foreign assets, in c lud ing up to 10% in var iab le- income assets. Residents may issue equ i t ies and bonds abroad, and the associated foreign exchange operations must be effected through the formal exchange market; the on ly exception is companies that issue bonds, which may sell foreign exchange on the informal market. Equ i t ies may be sold according to the ru les that regulate capital in f lows through the mechanism of ADRs. Primary ADR issues are only subject to a m i n im um in te rna t ional risk-rating requ i rement for long-term debt of BB- for banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. On Ap r il 18, 2000, Ch i lean companies were authorized to also list the ir shares in foreign markets in which ADRs are not traded, as long as they comply with the same conditions that apply to the issuance of ADRs. At the same time, investment funds for development of companies and for real estate were authorized to subscribe th e ir quotas in foreign markets. Such inves tmen ts must be authorized by, and registered w i th, the CBC. Currency must be brought in through the formal market but may be sold on the formal or the in fo rmal market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts These operations are not perm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CHILE 207 Residents may acquire bonds or other investment ins t rumen ts abroad. Foreign exchange may be purchased on the formal or the informal market, but it must be transferred abroad through the formal market after inform ing the CBC. In the case of pension fund managers (PFMs), insurance companies, mu tual fund s, and in terna t ional inves tment fund s, l im i ts are applied with regard to instrument types and amounts. Bank ing f i rms or ju r id i c al persons registered w i th the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance may issue bonds, subject to pr ior au thor iza t ion by the CBC. E f fec t ive Octo- ber 12, 2000, the rating of the long-term foreign debt ins trumen ts of the f i rms issu ing them must have a m i n im um classification of BB-, if the weighted average term of the bonds is more than four years, or BB, if it is between two and four years. Banking firms or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions must have a m i n im um rating of B if the weighted average term of the bond is more than four years and BB if it is between two and four years, and, in the case of subor- dinated bonds issued by banks, the weighted average term of the bond should not be less than two years or f ive years, depending on the issuer. Effective October 12, 2000, banks were allowed to issue deposit certificates w i th a weighted average term of less than two years w i thout pr ior CBC au thor iza t ion. In general, these acquisitions are authorized for nonresidents, but there are regulations gov- erning the mode of in f low. The associated capital in f low l iqu ida t ion and the subsequent repatriation of proceeds must be effected through the formal exchange market. Acqu i s i t ions through external loans are subject to a tax on interest of 4% and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Ac- qu is i t ions through FICEs are subject to a m i n im um ho ld ing period of f ive years in add i t ion to a 10% profit tax. In the case of f inanc ial investments, there is a m i n i m um h o l d i ng period of one year, and they are subject to the general income tax law. These transactions are not authorized and ne i ther is the promo t ion of these or other f inan- cial services from abroad. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, the company must be registered and established, and must have brought in capital for operational purposes. The legal mechanism used is the creation of a Chilean agency of the foreign corporation. Purchase abroad by residents The acqu is i t ion of money market ins trumen ts by i n d i v i d u a ls and non fmanc ial companies is not restricted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Funds that enter Ch i le through an FICE are subject to a m i n im um ho ld ing period of f ive years. These transactions are not permitted. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, the com- pany must be registered and established, and must have brought in capital for operational purposes. Once th is has occurred, sales of collective inves tment securities are subject to the same domestic rules as any other investment, with no controls on the repatriation of profits. There are no controls for nonfmanc ial agents. Pension funds are restricted by the type of fund (mainly to avoid leveraged and hedged funds), country risk, regulation, l iqu id i ty, experience of the fund, and par t ic ipan t's concentration. In practice, Chilean mutual funds (open funds) and investment funds (closed funds) are not offered directly abroad. To operate abroad, such funds must meet the ex is t ing regu la t ions of the foreign country. Domestically issued ins t rumen ts may be sold to nonres iden ts, but funds must be repatriated. The capital comm i t ted by the FICE mu st rema in inves ted in Ch i le for f ive years. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The CBC has authorized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to make foreign interest rate forwards, fu tures, and swaps in the local markets. Agents must in fo rm the CBC. Effective May 4, 2000, banks and th i rd parties are authorized to trade forward contracts w i th foreign counterparts invo lv ing Ch i lean currency (either the peso or the in f l a t ion- indexed Unidad de Fomento —UF); and banks are allowed to hedge credit risk associated w i th the ir fixed-income por tfo l io and commercial loans w i th residents, us ing f in an c i al de- r iva t ives, for both local and foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 CHILE Purchase locally by nonresidents The market is not we ll developed. All these operations must be performed th rough the formal exchange market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents To operate, foreign agents must have resident status. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The CBC regulates derivative operations undertaken on external markets in fore ign curren- cies, international interest rate commodities, and variable-return instruments. Speculative positions with derivatives abroad may be taken (banks may not take over-the-counter inter- est rate options), but the currency must be remitted and returned through the formal ex- change market. Provisions relating to the hedging operations that banks may carry out are ma in ta ined, as we ll as those relating to der iva t ive operations in variable return ins trumen ts. The latter may also be undertaken by nonbank financial institutions. Derivatives for currency and interest rates exist for operations w i th foreign agents in over- the-counter operations or with foreign banks. There is access to formal spot exchange mar- kets for hedging purposes. Currency and interest rate options are allowed, except for banks. Foreign exchange needed for these operations may be bought at either the formal or the in fo rmal exchange market, but must be channeled th rough the formal market. All types of nonfmanc ial agents (except pension funds and insurance companies) are allowed to engage in international trade lend ing, but these operations must be effected through the informal exchange market. Commercial credits may be contracted with foreign banks and financial entities under a 4% tax on interest. Associated foreign exchange transactions must be effected through the formal exchange market. Operations by insurance companies, pension funds, and in s t i tu t ional investors are restric- ted. Foreign exchange needed for these operations may be bought at either the fo rmal or the informal exchange market, but must be channeled through the formal market. Financial credits may be contracted w i th foreign banks and f inanc ial entities, subject to a 4% tax on interest and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Under the Compendium of In terna t ional For- eign Exchange Regulations (CIFER), debtors may use the formal market to prepay credits or to maintain the resources in an account abroad as a guarantee to creditors. These transactions are not allowed except for banks, wh ich have to be authorized by the CBC. Only the fo l low ing operations may be guaranteed or backed by banks: external cred- its received by domestic enterprises, f inanc ial credits, the issuance of documen ts abroad, and forward contracts w i th authorized agents abroad. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign exchange for investment may be bought both in the formal or the informal market, but the funds must be transferred through the former. If proceeds of such investments are brought back into the country, they have to be channeled through the formal market, but there is no surrender requirement. Investments by commercial banks are l im i ted to a per- centage of their effective capital and are subject to m in imum international risk ratings. Nonfmanc ial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to make investments abroad, inc lud ing the acquisition of real or financial assets and establishing agencies or branches abroad, as well as participa- tion in companies and in contracts for the exploration and exploitation of na tural resources. Funds must be channeled through the formal market and fore ign exchange must be sold there as we l l. There are three legal mechanisms for a foreigner to invest in Ch i le: (1) FICEs are subject to a five-year m i n im um ho ld ing period and a m i n im um amount of US$1 m i l- l ion; (2) Chapter XIV of the CIFER establishes no m i n im um ho ld ing period and a m i n i- mum amount of US$10,000; and (3) under Special Regime DL-600, investments are sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 209 ject to a one-year m i n im um holding period and a m i n im um amount of US$1 m i l l i o n. In th is case, the investor enjoys favorable taxation treatment with regard to the choice between the general income tax law or the guaranteed payment profit tax of 42%. For direct investments made under Chapter XIV of the CIFER, there is no m i n im um hold- ing period. For investments made through FICEs, capital may only be repatriated after five years and those investments made under Special Regime DL-600 must be he ld in Ch i le for at least one year to qua l i fy for repatriation. Insurance companies may invest only 3% of their capital in non inhab i tab le urban real estate. Un t il May 4, 2000, when the w i thho ld ing period was e l im ina ted, purchases were subject to a m i n im um investment requirement of US$10,000 and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of one year. Un t il May 4, 2000, when the w i thho ld ing period was e l im ina ted, the investment must have been held for one year in Chile, and it must be demonstrated that the asset was sold and applicable taxes paid. Ch i lean regulations establish that both ju r id ical and na tural persons may lend abroad. How- ever, the currency from such loans must be remitted through the formal exchange market. The CBC must be informed about such operations. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies n .r. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Transfers may be made only through the informal market. These operations are permitted but are subject to the same restrictions applicable to loans. Effective October 12, 2000, the fo l low ing new foreign exchange operations were permitted for banks and financial institutions: borrowing funds from the pub l ic through time deposits and savings; g iv ing mortgage loans and syndicated loans to residents; acqu i r ing bonds is- sued abroad by residents; and issuing deposits, bonds, and promissory notes abroad that may be traded domestically or abroad. Some of these operations may be traded between local and foreign banks. Nonbank financial institutions are not allowed to ma in ta in accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign time deposits w i th in the margin for f inanc ial investment abroad. External current accounts are not controlled. Banks may purchase debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Time deposits are considered part of the margin for financial investments. Banks satisfying a capital ade- quacy ratio of at least 10% may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Deposits, loans, and other assets of Chilean banks with foreign banks of Ch i lean ownership may not exceed 40% of the capital and reserves of the foreign bank. Banks are authorized to extend loans to natural or ju r id i c al persons resident abroad in order to finance foreign trade operations between th ird countries. On May 4, 2000, Chilean banks were authorized to provide guarantees or f inance to foreign financial institutions, but only in operations related to the f inanc ing of international trade between th ird countries. Banks may grant loans or acquire securities denominated or expressed in fore ign exchange provided they rema in w i t h in the open position l im i t s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 CHILE D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts By law, there are ce i l ings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate. Foreign f inanc ial investments by commercial banks are l im i ted to 70% of each bank's ef- fective capital, and are restricted to b i l ls and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign gov- ernmen ts or central banks and private enterprises. The total exposure to any one country may not exceed 50% (prev ious ly 40%) of each bank 's effec t ive capital. If the investment is made in one foreign f inanc ial institution, it may not exceed 30% of the domestic bank 's effective capital. The general m in imum long-term international debt risk rating (and its equ iva lent for short-term debt) for the f inanc ial instruments is BBB-, and up to 20% may be invested in BB- instruments. The foreign exchange needed to invest abroad must be obtained in the formal exchange market. Investments require the prior authorization of the CBC. Effec t ive October 10, 2000, banks are allowed to have up to 70% of their invest- ments in ins trumen ts rated BB- or h igher and were permitted to invest in instruments of unrated issuers as long as the issuer belongs to a country listed by the Superintendency of Banks and F inanc ial Institutions. Effec t ive October 12, 2000, banks are allowed to issue bonds abroad w i th a weighted aver- age between two and four years. The m i n im um risk classification required is BB. The m i n im um risk classification for banks issuing bonds w i th a weighted term of more than four years was reduced from A/B to B. In the case of subordinated bonds, the m i n im um rating was changed from BBB- to BB. Nonresidents may invest in banks, but such investments are subject to a one-year ho ld ing period. The l im it is 20% of capital and reserves. This margin includes der iva t ive and spot ins tru- ments, foreign investment, and assets and l iab i l i t ies issued abroad or denominated in for- eign exchange. Additionally, there is a foreign financial investment ceiling of 40% of the capital and reserves of each bank, a max imum investment in subsidiaries and branches abroad of 20% of the capital and reserves of domestic banks, and a requirement that the balance of all acqu is i t ions and sales of foreign exchange for a bank be positive. Effec t ive March 30, 2000, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions were allowed to compute excess foreign exchange flows to calculate the ir mismatch in local currency. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Pens ion funds and insurance companies may hold on ly foreign ins trumen ts of a m i n im um in terna t ional long-term risk rating requ irement of BBB. These investors may also acquire foreign ins t rumen ts guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury, such as Brady Bonds. Acqu is i t ion of equ i t ies and variable-income assets by pension funds is restricted to instruments in some international markets. Specifically, there are rules on the transparency, regulation, and information of the stock exchange where these instruments can be acquired. However, for insurance companies, the possible stock exchange options are wider; insurance compa- nies may invest in markets where there is a da i ly average of at least US$10 m i l l i on of eq- u i ty transactions. Mu tual funds may use the formal exchange market to make investments abroad. Pension funds are permitted to invest up to 16% of their resources (previously 12%). Vari- able income securities from any issuer should not exceed 10% of the fund. Insurance com- panies may invest 3% of their reserves and risk net worth. Life insurance companies may invest their technical reserves and the ir risk net worth w i th global l im i ts of 15% in f inanc ial investments and 3% in real estate. The l im i ts for general insurance companies d i f fer from those of the l i fe insurance companies only in the case of f inanc ial investment abroad. The l im it for the former is 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 2 11 Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Pension funds and insurance companies are on ly allowed to cover themselves against cur- rency vo la t i l i ty up to a max imum of the ir foreign f inanc ial investments on a currency-by- currency basis. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 1. The tariff rate was reduced by one percentage point to 9%. Capital transactions May 4. The one-year w i thho ld ing requ i rement for foreign investments was e l im ina ted for certain types of investments. Controls on capital and money market instruments April 18. Ch i lean companies were authorized to also list the ir shares in foreign markets in wh ich ADRs are not traded, as long as they comply with the same conditions that apply to the issuance of ADRs. Controls on derivatives and other in- struments October 12. Banks were allowed to issue deposit certificates with a weighted average term of less than two years w i thout prior CBC authorization. October 12. The rating of the long-term foreign debt instruments of the f i rms issu ing them were requ ired to have a m i n im um classification of BB-, if the weighted average term of the bonds is more than four years, or BB, if it is between two and four years. May 4. Banks and third parties were authorized to trade forward contracts w i th foreign counterparts invo lv ing Chilean currency (either the peso or the inf la t ion- indexed UF); and banks were allowed to hedge credit risk associated w i th the ir f ixed- income por tfo l io and commercial loans w i th residents, using financial derivatives, for both local and foreign currency. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions March 30. Financial institutions were allowed to compute excess foreign exchange flows to calculate th e ir mismatch in local currency. May 4. Ch i lean banks were authorized to provide guarantees or finance to foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, but on ly in operations related to the f inanc ing of international trade between th i rd countries. October 10. Banks were allowed to have up to 70% of the ir investments in ins trumen ts rated BB- or higher and were permitted to invest in instruments of unrated issuers as long as the issuer belongs to a country listed by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions. October 12. Banks were allowed to issue bonds abroad w i th a weighted average between two and four years. October 12. Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions were allowed to perform a number of new foreign exchange operations. Imports and import payments January 1. The ta r i ff rate was reduced by one percentage po int to 8%. Changes During 2001 March 1. The requ irement to subm it an import report to the CBC was e l im ina ted. March 1. Import declarations issued by the NCS are required to purchase foreign exchange on the formal exchange market. Exports and export proceeds March 1. The requ i rement to subm it an export report to the CBC was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina is the Chinese r e nm i n b i. The currency u n it is the yuan. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the renm inbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket. The People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a base rate for the renm inbi against the U.S. dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the yen based on the weighted average price of foreign exchange transactions d u r i ng the previous day's trading. In the in terbank for- eign exchange market, daily movement of the exchange rate of the r enm inbi against the U.S. dollar is limited to 0.3% on either side of the base rate as announced by the PBC. When the banks designated for foreign exchange business formu la te the nom in al spot ex- change rate of the renm inbi against the U.S. dollar, the buy ing and selling rates may not exceed 0.15% of the base rate announced by the PBC. The buying and selling rates of the r e nm i n bi against the Hong Kong do l lar and the yen may not deviate more than 1% from the base rate. In the event they exceed th is l im i t, th is informa t ion must be f i led. The marg in between the spot buy ing and selling rates of renm inbi against other quoted currencies may not exceed 0.5%. The se l l ing prices for cash transactions in all quoted currenc ies are the same as the spot se l l ing rate for all quoted currencies, and the buy ing price for cash shou ld not exceed 2.5% of the median of the spot buying and selling rates. The Shanghai-based Ch ina Foreign Exchange Trading System (CFETS) is a na t iona l ly integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading. At present, it is elec- t ron ica l ly l inked w i th 36 foreign exchange trad ing subcenters located in ma jor cities. All in te rbank transactions of r enm inbi against other currencies are conducted th rough the sys- tem. Financial ins t i tu t ions involved in foreign exchange transactions must become mem- bers of the CFETS. No. No. The PBC allows forward purchase and sale of renm inbi through the Bank of Ch ina against ve r i f ica t ion of au then t ic i ty of current account transactions on a t r ial basis w i th a m a x im um ma tu r i ty of six months. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. n.a. The use of foreign exchange for p r ic ing or settlement of transactions among residents is p roh ib i ted. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control The State Adm in i s t ra t ion of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) is responsible for foreign exchange adm in is t ra t ion, under the adm in is t ra t ion of the PBC. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 213 International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Private persons may hold gold but not trade it. Nonresidents may buy gold and gold prod- ucts and s i lver and silver products but must present the invoice to take them abroad. Controls on external trade Trading of gold and silver is restricted to pharmaceutical, indus tr ia l, and other approved users. Un l im i t ed amounts may be imported, but must be declared. Exportation requires a permit. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted The exportation of domestic currency is l im i ted to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take their personal legitimate foreign currencies abroad as follows: (1) except in special cases, residents may take foreign currencies in cash up to US$10,000 or its equivalent abroad; (2) amounts exceeding US$10,000 may be taken abroad in the form of traveler's checks or other payment certificates; (3) residents taking foreign currencies up to US$2,000 abroad do not need to apply for a License for Carrying Foreign Currencies Abroad (LCFCA). For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$4,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required; for amounts of more than US$4,000, the authenticity of the transaction must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been ob- tained. Nonresidents taking foreign currencies up to US$5,000 abroad do not need an LCFCA; for amounts of more than US$5,000 but less than US$10,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required; for amounts of more than US$10,000, the authenticity of the transac- t ion must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been obtained. Residents and nonresidents importing more than US$2,000 and US$5,000, respectively, need to declare the amounts to customs. Resident Accounts Domestically funded enterprises (DFEs) may ma in ta in foreign exchange settlement ac- counts with approved balances for current account purposes based on certain criteria on export/import volume and amount of capital set by the SAFE. Domestic establishments involved w i th receipts and payments as an agent, temporary receipts and payments, and temporary receipts and pending payments in external contract projects, large machinery and electric product exports, donations, and aid may maintain foreign exchange accounts w i th approval of the SAFE and settle receipts and payments within the scope stipulated by the SAFE. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs) may open (1) foreign exchange settlement ac- counts for receipts and payments under the current account and for verified payments under the capital account w i th a max imum amount stipulated by the SAFE for each enterprise; and (2) foreign exchange specified accounts for receipts under the capital account, pay- ments under the current account, and approved payments under the capital account. Na tu ral persons may open foreign currency savings accounts w i th authorized banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Agencies in need of foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into foreign currency at authorized banks by presenting va l id proof and commercial documents when external payments are made. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents staying in China for a short t ime may open foreign currency savings accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Importers need prior registration with the SAFE of advance payments exceeding 15% of the contract amount and the equivalent of US$100,000; importers need to present a registration form, valid proof, and commercial documents, and carry out reconciliation procedures according to regulations. Advance import deposits The same regulations apply as for advance payment requirements. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Importers must provide valid proof and commercial b i l ls —ma in ly import permits, auto- matic registration permits, proof of import, customs declarations, verification forms for foreign exchange payments, import contracts, and the like —to obtain foreign exchange or to pay directly from their foreign exchange accounts. To engage in foreign trade, all enterprises must obtain approval from the foreign trade administration and register with the administrations for industry and commerce, according to the law. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited. In addition, the importation of the following items is prohibited: weapons; ammunition and explosives; manuscripts; printed and recorded materials; and f i lms that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests. Yes. Yes. An agreement on agricultural cooperation w i th the United States, which sets resolutions on the quarantine of wheat, citrus fru i t, and meat existing between the two countries, is in effect. Import tariff rates fall into two categories: general and preferential. Preferential rates are granted to imports from countries with which China has a trade treaty or agreement. Other imports are subject to the general rate of duty. Imports of inputs and capital goods of FFEs are exempt from tariffs. Products subject to designated trading include wheat, chemical fertilizers, cotton, natural rubber, plant oil, plywood, steel, sugar, timber, tobacco and its products, and wool. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Effective April 1,2000, qua l i fy ing DFEs may retain foreign exchange equivalent to 30% of their annual foreign trade turnover (previously, 15%). Qualifying enterprises are (1) enter- prises whose annual export trade exceeds US$200 m i l l ion, whose export foreign exchange receipt rates are at least 85%, and whose document presentation rates are at least 80%; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 2 15 (2) foreign trad ing companies whose annual export-import vo lume exceeds US$30 m i l l ion, whose capital exceeds Y 10 m i l l ion, whose export foreign exchange receipt rates are at least 95%, and whose document presentation rates are at least 80%; (3) production-type enterprises authorized to engage in export-import whose annual export-import volume and capital exceed US$10 m i l l ion and Y 30 m i l l ion, respectively. FFEs may retain the ir export earnings provided these earnings do not exceed the max imum amount allowed for a foreign exchange account as prescribed by the SAFE; otherwise, the balance, if any, must be sold to authorized banks. The purchases and sales of foreign exchange by FFEs have been in- cluded under the banking surrender system. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Quotas were allocated through a b idd ing system for 33 products in the first half of 1999 and for 29 products in the latter part of 1999. Export du t ies are levied on 36 products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Non trade paymen ts by FFEs and DFEs are subject to the same provisions. Resident ind i- v idu a ls are subject to d i f fe rent regulations. Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The payment of export commission proceeds is allowed according to the export contracts and the commission contracts. For a hidden commission exceeding 2% of the contract amount and a stated commission exceeding 5% of the contract amount and the equ iva lent of US$10,000, pr ior approval of the SAFE is required. A hidden commission not exceeding 2% of the contract amount or a stated commission not exceeding 5% or the equ iva lent of less than US$10,000 may be settled d irec t ly through a bank. Proof of transaction is requ ired for all trade-related payments. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed l im i ts for commissions. Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presen t ing va l id proof and commercial b i l ls. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The foreign exchange requ iremen ts of companies w i th in the budget are provided according to the limits prescribed by the MOF. There are no restrictions on payments for travel of FFE staff, whereas the amount of fo re ign exchange that may be bought by other corpora- t ions must be declared in accordance w i th MOF standards. When residents travel abroad as part of tou r ing parties, their registration fees may be pu r- chased and rem i t ted abroad by tou r ing agencies. Ver if ica t ion and approval of the SAFE are required for amounts exceeding the specified l im i t s. Residents t rave l ing to Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR for personal reasons may purchase up to US$1,000 worth of foreign currencies; individuals traveling to other countries or regions ( inc lud ing Taiwan Province of Ch ina) may purchase up to US$2,000 worth of for- eign currencies. For amoun ts exceeding these ceilings, verification of authenticity by the SAFE is requ i red. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Res iden ts may purchase fo re ign exchange up to US$1,000 for payments of med ic ines and med ical equ ipm ent abroad; for larger amounts, they must subm it appropriate documenta- tion for SAFE verification. Persons paying for their own studies abroad may be allowed a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA onetime purchase of foreign exchange of up to US$2,000. Larger amounts require the veri- fication and approval of the SAFE. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of earnings and tax clearance is required. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test For transfers regarding subscriptions and membership fees, proof of transaction is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign grants and financial aid received by domestic establishments, and foreign exchange earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts may be maintained with the approval of the SAFE. Foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of in- ternational organizations and affiliates of foreign jur id ical persons, resident persons, and foreign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange. FFEs may retain foreign exchange earnings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the maximum l im it allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to authorized banks. The purchase and sale of foreign exchange by FFEs have been included under the banking surrender system. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may only purchase B shares. The face value of B shares is denominated in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. These shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Ex- change and can only be bought by foreign investors. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents No institutions may purchase securities except for those w i th special approval from the State Council. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval by the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC) is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Institutions authorized by the PBC may purchase foreign bonds but must use their own foreign exchange funds and are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval by the SAFE is required for all such transactions. Prepayment of external debt is prohibited when there is no early repayment clause in bor- rowing contracts. If there is such a clause, borrowers may repay such debt in advance using their own foreign exchange, with the SAFE verification. The purchase of foreign exchange for the purpose of advance repayment is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 217 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to sell or issue money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue abroad of securities, other than stocks, requires SAFE approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for the purchase of money market instruments. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for the sale or issue of money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Only f inanc ial institutions that are approved by the PBC and have "foreign exchange trad- ing for own account or on behalf of customer" operations may purchase and sell derivative ins trumen ts without prior SAFE approval. The purpose of such purchases or sales may be for hedging of risk only. Speculative trad ing is not permitted. Nonfmanc ial ins t i tu t ions may engage in such activities through f inanc ial institutions as part of approved operations with- out prior approval. Prior SAFE approval must be obtained if these transactions are required to be made w i th foreign institutions. Trading may be done directly w i th foreign ins t i tu t ions for derivatives transactions under the provisions of the debt of FFEs w i thout approval; however, debt prov is ion modification procedures must be completed after the fact. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Authorized financial institutions may lend directly to overseas institutions or purchase overseas credits; however, these activities must be reported to the SAFE. Only domestically funded financial institutions are permitted by the SAFE to engage in external borrowing, and authorized industrial and commercial enterprises or groups may engage in external borrowing of commercial credit. For credit over a one-year maturity, the loan must be part of the state plan for u t i l iz ing foreign capital and must be approved by the SAFE. Financial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing are free to conduct short-term foreign borrowing, with a maturity of one year or less, w i th in the balance ap- proved by the SAFE. Specific, transaction-based approval is not required, but the borrow- ing must be registered w i th the SAFE. Forward LCs with a maturity exceeding 90 days, but of less than 365 days, are inc luded in the category of short-term credits, wh i le those exceeding one year are included in m ed ium- and long-term international commercial loans. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents w i thout ob ta in ing approval but must register the borrowing w i th the SAFE. If there are no provisions on the advance repayment in the lending contract, no advance repayment of debt is permitted. If there are provisions on advance repayment, enterprises may redeem debt w i th the ir own foreign exchange, provided that approval has been granted by the SAFE, but they may not purchase foreign exchange for that purpose. Renm inbi cred- its extended by banks to domestic ins t i tu t ions should be used only for produc t ive purposes and may not be used to purchase foreign exchange for debt service. At the same time, do- mestic banks are prohibited from accepting foreign bank guarantees for renm inbi loans to DFEs. However, domestic banks may accept guarantees from foreign banks to extend ren- m inbi loans to FFEs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Financial credits The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Prior SAFE approval is required for f inanc ing guarantees provided by banks and all guaran- tees provided by other institutions (with the exception of FFEs). Prior approval is not re- qu ired for non fmanc ing guarantees. Registration must be completed for all foreign guaran- tees. Specific, transaction-based approval by the SAFE is required when the guarantee is exercised. Residents may accept guarantees from nonresidents on ly if borrowing from overseas. When residents borrow renm inbi from Chinese-owned banks, acceptance of guarantees from overseas banks is restricted to FFEs. Foreign exchange is provided for the investment after (1) examination of sources of foreign exchange and an assessment of the foreign exchange risk invo lved, (2) approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), and (3) approval and registration of outward foreign exchange remittance w i th the SAFE. Nonresidents are free to invest in Ch ina as long as they meet requirements under Sino- foreign joint-venture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by the MOFTEC. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as exchange control is concerned. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct investment in some industries is prohibited. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Prior approval from the original review and approval department is required for l iqu ida t ion. SAFE verification is required to purchase foreign exchange to rem it funds belonging to foreign investors after l iqu ida t ion. Controls on real estate transactions The same regulations apply as for direct investment. Sale locally by nonresidents With SAFE approval, foreign exchange may be purchased for remittance abroad using r enm inbi obtained by nonresidents from the sale of commercial real estate purchased originally with foreign exchange. Foreign exchange may not be purchased using renm inbi obtained from the sale of commercial real estate purchased o r ig ina l ly using r enm inb i. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In the case that a resident's directly related fam i ly member abroad encounters illness, death, or unexpected disaster, the resident is allowed to purchase and remit abroad up to US$1,000 or its equivalent, once the resident has va l id, notarized proof or proof from the Chinese embassy or consulate; application from the patient's local agency (work un i t) or prescription from the hospital; the relevant documents from the resident's work u n it (if without a work unit, from the local subdistrict office or the people's government depart- ment above the town level); and proof of the documents related to foreign exchange pay- ments. As for other foreign exchange purchases, amounts of up to US$500 may be pro- vided by the bank. For a onetime purchase of foreign exchange for private purposes w i th an amount exceeding the stipulated standard and up to US$50,000 or its equivalent, applica- tion to the local SAFE offices against specific documented proof is required, and, after verification by the local SAFE office, the foreign exchange needed may be purchased from the bank and remitted or taken abroad. When a onetime purchase exceeds the stipulated standard or US$50,000 or its equivalent, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank provides the foreign exchange. Remittances from a resident's domestic foreign currency account for payments for g if ts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a one t ime amount of less than US$10,000 or its ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 219 equivalent, may be made directly through a bank. For amounts of more than US$10,000 but less than US$50,000 or the ir equivalents, application to the local SAFE office is required w i th stipulated documented proof, and, after verification by the local SAFE office, remit- tances may be made through a bank. For amounts of more than US$50,000 or its equiva- lent, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for ver if ica t ion before the bank makes the foreign exchange remittances. Transfers of a resident's domestic foreign currency cash or deposits from a resident's for- eign currency cash account for payments of gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a onetime amount of less than US$2,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly by a bank. For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$10,000 or the ir equivalents, applica- tion to the local SAFE office is required w i th specific documented proof and corresponding customs declaration documents to remit foreign currency before remittances may be made by a bank. For amounts above US$10,000 or its equivalent, the transaction must be re- ported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for ver if ica t ion before the bank makes the foreign exchange remittances. If the foreign currency income from donations and legacies needs to be paid in foreign currency cash or converted into renm inbi and if the onetime amount is less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, payments may be made directly by banks. When the amount is above US$10,000 but less than US$50,000 or their equivalents, relevant documented proof must be provided to the banks or the SAFE. For inherited foreign currency, the required docu- mentation includes proof of identification of authenticity, a notarized statement, and proof of tax clearance abroad. For household use of foreign currency, proof of iden t i f ica t ion of authenticity and documentation of k insh ip are required. For foreign currency donations, proof of identification of authenticity and a donation agreement are needed. Banks may make the payments after v e r i fy ing the documented proof and recording the transaction. When the amount is above US$50,000 but less than US$200,000 or their equivalents, ap- plication to the local SAFE office is required w i th documented proof, and after the verifica- tion of authenticity by the local SAFE office, payments may be made through banks. For amounts above US$200,000 or its equivalent, application to the local SAFE office is re- quired w i th documented proof and the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank makes the foreign exchange remittances. n.a. Rou t ine foreign exchange revenues inc lud ing retirement and pension funds may be remitted abroad. Funds fa l l ing under capital items, such as proceeds from selling residential prop- erty, may not be converted into foreign exchange for remittance abroad; rent income, how- ever, may be converted for remittance abroad. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Registration w i th the SAFE is requ ired for domestic banks to open foreign exchange ac- counts abroad. As for domestic nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and non fmanc ial enterprises, prior approval by the SAFE is required. The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Lend ing is ma in ly subject to review of qua l i f ica t ions by the PBC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Borrowers need to register ex post the transaction with the SAFE and should get a pe rm it from the SAFE to repay the p r inc ipa l. Ch ina does not issue securities denominated in foreign currency. There are d ifferent reserve requirements for deposits in renm inbi and in foreign currency. A reserve requ i rement of 6% applies to r e nm i n bi deposits of Ch inese-funded banks and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks foreign-funded banks. A reserve requirement of 2% applies to foreign exchange deposits of Chinese-funded banks. Different reserve requirements apply to foreign exchange deposits of foreign-funded banks —for deposits with maturities of less than three months, the re- quirement is 5%; for deposits with maturities of three months or more, the requ irement is 3%. Reserve deposits are nonremunerated. The ratio of all l iqu id foreign exchange capital to all l iqu id foreign exchange l i ab i l i t i es may not be less than 60%. The ratio of the credit balance for a single borrower to a bank's net capital may not exceed 10%. Bank equity investment should not exceed the difference between bank capital and manda- tory paid-in capital. Nonbank financial institutions' total equity investment (excluding trust accounts) should not exceed the difference between their capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Investment in foreign securities other than equities on foreign securities markets by banks is subject to quarterly approval by the PBC. In banks by nonresidents PBC approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits For financial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the foreign exchange working capital. As authorized by the highest level of management, financial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but this should not exceed 1% of the foreign exchange working capital or foreign exchange operating funds. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exports and export proceeds April 1. Qua l i fy ing DFEs may retain foreign exchange equ iva lent to 30% of the ir annu al foreign exchange trade turnover. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong SAR is the Hong Kong dollar. Commemorative gold coins of HK$ 1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by collectors and seldom circulated. The authorities do not ma in ta in margins in exchange transactions. The currency board system in Hong Kong SAR, adopted on October 17, 1983, requires the monetary base to be backed by the reserve currency (i.e., the U.S. dollar) at the fixed exchange rate of HKS7.80 to US$1. In Hong Kong SAR, the monetary base includes the amount of banknotes and coins issued, the balance of clearing accounts of the licensed banks held with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) (i.e., aggregate balance), and the outstanding amount of exchange fund bills and notes. Operating under the rule- based currency board system, the HKMA has undertaken to issue additional exchange fund paper only when there is an inflow of funds, but the size of the program is allowed to expand along with the interest payments on such papers. The issue and redemption of Certificates of Indebtedness, which provide backing for bank- notes issued by the note-issuing banks, are required to be made against U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 to US$1. The issue and withdrawal of coins are settled against the U.S. dollar at the fixed rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. An explicit convertibility undertaking was made by the HKMA to licensed banks to con- vert Hong Kong dollar balances in their clearing accounts into U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.75 per US$1. This convertibility rate moved to HK$7.80 from HK$7.75 by 1 pip (i.e., HK$0.0001) per calendar day un t i l, on August 12, 2000, it reached the rate of HK$7.80, where it remained. No. No. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector in i t ia t ives, and the government has no official role. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. UN sanctions are implemented by the Hong Kong SAR government in accordance w i th the relevant regulations made under the UN Sanctions Ordinance by the Chief Executive on the instructions of the M in is try of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China. Payment arrears No. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No d is t inc t ion is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Import licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fu l f i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. There is no quota on import quantity covered by a license, whereas the total import quantity of ozone-depleting substances covered by the Montreal Protocol is subject to quotas. The same applies to the import of rice where the quota arrangement is to ensure a stable and suff ic ient supply of the staple food in Hong Kong SAR. In accordance w i th Hong Kong SAR's comm i tment under the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, the rice trade w i ll be fu l ly liberalized by 2010. All imports are free of duty, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 223 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Export licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fu lf i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. Exports of certain textile articles to some importing countries are subject to quotas as a resu lt of the quantitative restrictions ma in ta ined by these countries on textile exports from Hong Kong SAR. According to the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, tex t i le quotas w i ll be abolished by 2005. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distributions from trusts, and dividends is not taxed in Hong Kong SAR; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong SAR is subject to a profits tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is not subject to the salaries tax. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorpo- rated in Hong Kong SAR or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securities, and fu- tures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry w i th in one month of establishing a business in Hong Kong SAR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Exchange and Clearing L im i ted imposes disclosure and position l im i ts on de r iva t ive products. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. The l im i ts and restrictions stated below are set by the HKMA for prudential reasons only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits No distinction is made between resident and nonresident deposit accounts. No distinction is made between local and overseas investments. No authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may acquire or hold any part of the share capital of any other company or companies in excess of an aggregate va lue of 25% of the capital base of the ins t i tu t ion w i thout the approval of the HKMA. Th is restric- tion does not apply if the share capital (1) is held as security for facilities granted; (2) was acquired through an underwriting or subunderwriting contract for a period not to exceed seven days; or (3) was acquired through satisfaction of debts, in which case the share capi- tal must be disposed of at the earliest suitable opportunity, but not later than 18 months after its acquisition. Effective February 18, 2000, an authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not acquire shares worth more than 5% of the capital base of an in- stitution at the time of the acquisition without HKMA approval, subject to the same excep- tions as above. No authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may purchase or hold any inter- est in foreign or domestic land in excess of an aggregate value of 25% of the capital base of the institution. This restriction does not apply to (1) land that is necessary for conducting the business of the institution or providing housing or amenities for its staff, subject to HKMA approval; (2) interest from land that was mortgaged to the institution to secure a debt due to the institution; (3) interest from land that accrues after the institution has come into possession of the land, provided that the interest be disposed of at the earliest suitable opportunity, but not later than 18 months after acquisition. The aggregate ho ld ing of share capital and interests in land, together w i th the ou ts tand ing amounts of all facilities to directors (or their related parties) by an authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not at any time exceed 80% of the ins t i tu t ion 's capital base. No person shall become a majority shareholder controller, a m ino r i ty shareholder control- ler, or an indirect controller of an authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR w i thout HKMA approval. Any person who becomes such a controller must no t i fy the HKMA w i th in 14 days. All authorized institutions are required to report to the HKMA their foreign currency posi- tions (including options) monthly. Locally incorporated institutions are required to report the ir consolidated foreign currency positions. The aggregate net overnight open position (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of ind iv idu al currencies) should not nor- ma l ly exceed 5% (and, in any event, not more than 15%) of the capital base of any ins t i tu- tion, and the net overnight open position in any ind iv idual currency shou ld not exceed 10% of the capital base. For subsidiaries of foreign banks, where the parent bank consolidates the foreign exchange risk on a global basis and for wh ich there is adequate home superv i- sion, the HKMA may accept higher l im i ts. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA re- views and monitors the ir internal l im i ts, wh ich are usua l ly set by their head offices and home supervisory authorities. In addition to these limits, locally incorporated institutions are required to prov ide regula- tory capital for foreign exchange risk such that their adjusted capital adequacy ratio (incor- porating market risk) should be above the respective statutory m i n im um ratios. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 225 Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 18. An authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not acquire shares worth more than 5% of the capital base of an institution at the time of the acquisition without HKMA approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Colombia is the Colombian peso. Various commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The Banco de la Repub l ica (BR) conducts foreign exchange transactions with the MOF and authorized financial intermediaries. All foreign exchange operations take place at a market-determined exchange rate. The BR quotes buying and selling rates for certain other currencies daily on the basis of the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Monetary policy combines elements of inf la t ion targeting and the use of monetary aggregates as in termed ia te targets. The Superintendency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates (i.e., the weighted average of buy ing and selling effected by foreign ex- change market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions and forward transactions). The government purchases foreign exchange for all pub l ic debt payments and other ex- pend i tures inc luded in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized in termed iar ies. Surtaxes inc lude a 7% surtax on remittances of earnings applied to existing oil and non-oil fo re ign investments, unless earnings are reinvested for f ive years; and a 3% w i thho ld ing tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers is applied. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange rate risks w i th respect to foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the BR on international mar- kets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments and receipts are normally effected in dollars, but residents and financial intermediaries are allowed to carry out operations in any currency. Use of foreign exchange among residents n.a. Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Settlements between Co lomb ia and the other LAIA countries may be made th rough ac- counts ma in ta ined w i t h in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Colombia ma in ta ins reciprocal credit agreements with China. Administration of control The MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsi- ble for applying penalties for any violation of the trade regulations. The Superintendency of Societies and the Superintendency of Banks are also responsible for the enforcement of exchange regulations. The authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial and mortgage banks, financial corporations, commercial f inance companies, the Financiera Energetica Nacional, the Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), sav- ings and loans corporations, and, effec t ive May 15, 2000, financial cooperatives, stock brokerages, and exchange houses. Exchange houses are authorized to carry out a l im i ted 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 227 range of foreign exchange activities (buying and selling foreign currency and, in some cases, transferring money). The BR keeps an accounting record both of foreign investments in Colombia and of debts abroad and tracks the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, and commissions. No. No. The BR makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the London gold market during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. Except for the BR, all imports and exports of domestic currencies should be effected through authorized financial intermediaries. For travelers, the maximum amount allowed is the equivalent of US$10,000. This limit is increased annually based on the consumer price index. For amounts exceeding this limit, a customs report must be f i led. Yes. Yes. Individuals entering the country with foreign exchange or securities denominated in foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000 must report it to customs. If the transac- tion is to be carried out through a foreign exchange house, the l im it is US$3,000. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Such accounts are restricted to travel agencies, international transport companies, compa- nies and stores in free-trade areas, nonresident companies and individuals working in Co- lombia, diplomatic missions, and employees of multilateral entities. Residents may maintain foreign accounts registered at the BR (compensation accounts), funds from which may be used to pay for imports, to invest abroad in financial assets, or to carry out any other foreign exchange operations. Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the BR. Special foreign accounts (special compensation accounts) are authorized for transactions among residents. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive current account deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR. Deposits in these accounts need not be registered at the BR; they may be used only for trade-related transactions. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 COLOMBIA Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In add i t ion, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. However, there is a special regime, whereby foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors are permitted to pur- chase foreign exchange from foreign exchange intermediaries, but these enterprises may opt out of the regime. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The following imports must be registered at the Ministry of Foreign Trade (MFT): imports under the previous system of licensing; imports subject to approval, subject to the ir m in i- mum contents; and special import-export systems. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to LAIA member countries, and special lists applicable only to LAIA member countries and the Andean Pact countries. Imports of medicines, chemical products, and weapons and mun i- tions are subject to licensing requirements. Reimbursable imports involve purchases of official foreign exchange from a foreign ex- change intermediary, including imports of machinery and equipment financed by interna- tional credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some pub l ic sector agencies are screened by the MFT to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except those for agricultural and live- stock products, the precursory substances for drugs, and for capital goods. These import licenses are valid for 12 months. Import licenses may be extended only once, except for those for the precursory substances for drugs. Import taxes and/or tariffs W i th certain exceptions, imports are subject to the GET of the Andean Pact. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized foreign exchange intermediaries w i th in six months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the BR. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and f irms in free-trade areas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. Effective January 1, 2001, upon surrendering export proceeds in the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates at any of three rates—2.25%, 2.5%, and 3.0% (previously, there were four rates of 2.25%, 3.6%, 4.5%, and 6.5%) of domestic value added —depending on the product, the coun try of destination, and the date of shipment. These certificates, wh ich are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) a m i n im um surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters pay a coffee con t r ibu t ion on the basis of international market prices; (3) the National Coffee Committee may establish a physical coffee contingent on the basis of international coffee prices; and (4) the National ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 229 Coffee Committee establishes a domestic price for export-type coffee expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the pub l ic sector may be surrendered to f inanc ial intermediaries. No. Yes. Yes. No. A 3% w i thho ld ing tax on foreign exchange receipts for personal services and other transfers is applied. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, or patents should be registered with the MFT for statistical purposes only. Capital must be registered with the BR before profits may be repatriated. Annual transfers of profits abroad and repatriation of capital are not restricted, but they may be temporarily restricted if international reserve holdings of the BR fa ll below the equ iva lent of three months of imports. The l im it on contractual interest rates for public debt is determined by the BR, which sets the max imum applicable rate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of these instruments, whether locally by nonresidents or abroad by residents, must be registered with the BR; those made by nonresidents may not be greater than 20% of the total issue. Nonresidents must establish an investment fund to participate in the stock market. Any portfolio investment must be registered with the BR. The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendency of Banks. Foreign investments in the form of place- ment of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the f inanc ial sector are permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be registered w i th the BR. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be effected through the authorized exchange market and amounts greater than US$500,000 must be registered with the BR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 COLOMBIA Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an investment fund in order to purchase these securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the BR and the issue requires the pr ior approval of the Superintendency of Securities. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an investment fund in order to purchase these securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. These transactions must be reported to the BR and require the prior approval of the Superintendency of Securities. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the BR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Effective May 15, 2000, to facilitate the development of the hedge market, the domestic market was opened to external brokers. Residents are now allowed to undertake opera- tions invo lv ing f inanc ial derivatives of the U.S. dollar and other currencies and to hedge the price of commodities, even if there is no specific risk to be covered. Purchase locally by nonresidents Except for the case prescribed above, a domestic risk must exist that requires coverage in the local market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Only foreign f inanc ial institutions classified as professional brokers and registered w i th the international bodies charged w i th the regulation and control of the forward and fu tures operations in the OECD countries are authorized to engage in these transactions. Residents are allowed to make these transactions w i th professional brokers, as described above. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Credits must be registered with the BR. Effective May 15, 2000, the nonremunerated deposit requirement for external financing was set at zero percent (previously, 10%) of the disbursement of any loan with the period to be determined by the BR. Anticipated payments and export credits over US$10,000 that are longer than 12 months are subject to deposit in U.S. dollars. Exempted from the deposit requ irement are the f inanc ing of imports; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters for up to 12 months for the max imum amount of US$550 m i l l i o n; credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian investments abroad, the disbursement of soft loans from foreign governments; external credits to finance margin calls in forward and options operations; and external loans transacted by public entities engaged in discounting. Prepayment of the loan is permitted with the authorization of the BR. In case of prepayment of the export credits, exporters must prove that over 85% of the declared va lue has been in fact exported. All pub l ic f inanc ing (borrowing and bond issues) in foreign currencies, in c lud ing by the central and local governments, is also subject to nonremunerated deposit. There is a l im it determined by the BR on contractual interest rates for the pub l ic sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the MOF. For loans to the government, or guaranteed by the government, the fo l low ing are also required: prior authorization from the National Counc il for Economic and Social Policy, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Pub l ic Credit, and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the BR. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be registered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 231 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be made through the formal exchange market. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the BR, must be made through the formal exchange market, and are subject to deposit requirements. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Inves tmen ts should be registered w i th the BR. Up to 100% ownership in any sector of the economy—except in defense and waste disposal —is allowed. Special regimes remain in effect in the f inanc ia l, pe tro leum, and m in ing sectors. Repatriation of proceeds must be registered with the BR. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases should be registered with the BR. Purchase abroad by residents There are no controls on transactions invo lv ing less than US$500,000. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. On ly loans transacted w i th foreign f inanc ial intermediaries are to be reported to the BR, and these must be channeled through the foreign exchange market. Banks must inform the BR. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are not subject to reserve requ iremen ts. Credit institutions may invest in short-term financial assets abroad, except in those issued by their subsidiaries. Nonresidents may purchase up to 100% of a local financial institution with the prior authorization of the Superintendency of Banks. The l im i ts are 20% and 5% of net worth. There are no regulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to au- thorized financial intermediaries because they do not have access to the BR. In terms of net external assets in cash, there is an upper limit of 50% of net worth. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 COLOMBIA Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Changes During 2000 May 15. Stock brokerages were authorized to become foreign exchange intermediaries. The foreign exchange authorizations of exchange houses and commercial financing companies were extended, subject to certain requirements. May 15. The hedge market was opened to external brokers. Residents were allowed to un- dertake operations involving financial derivatives of the U.S. dollar and other currencies and to hedge the price of commodities, even if there is no specific risk to be covered. Controls on credit operations May 15. The nonremunerated deposit requirement was reduced to zero (from 10%) for external financing. Changes During 2001 Exports and export proceeds January 1. The number of rates of tax credit certificates received by exporters after surren- dering their export receipts was reduced to three from four and the rates were changed to 2.25%, 2.5%, and 3.0% (previously, 2.25%, 3.6%, 4.5%, and 6.5%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Comoros is the Comorian franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Comorian franc is pegged to the euro at CF 491.96775 per €1. Exchange rates are officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the euro and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Como- ros (CBC) and is provided to traders by the only authorized commercial bank for up to three months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Comoros is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEM AC members) are made in French francs or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspon- dent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through fore ign accounts in francs. n.a. n.a. Comoros is a member of COMESA and the Cross-Border In i t ia t ive. Yes. The Minister of Finance and Budget has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the CBC and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The M in is try of Finance and Budget supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. W i th the exception of those transactions relating to gold, the country's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (WAEMU and CEMAC members). A statistical report is required to monitor speculative transactions. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Yes. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 COMOROS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles con ta in ing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewe lry w i th in the l im it of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to CF 500,000 may be exported. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out the equ iva lent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to CBC approval, which is granted if supporting documentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equ iva lent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment issued abroad in the ir name without providing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Opening of these accounts is permitted, but no authorization has been granted. Held domestically He ld abroad These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted if applicants meet the criteria for nonresident eligibility. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentat ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts All import transactions must be dom ic i led w i th the authorized bank if the va lue is CF 500,000 or more. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 235 Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list The importation of most goods, except those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, was subject to ind iv idu al licensing, w h i ch was for statistical purposes only. Effec t ive January 31, 2000, th is licensing requ i rement was eliminated; however, notification is required for statistical purposes. The importation from all countries of certain goods is prohibited for health or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are import duty rates of 20%, 30%, and 40% for general merchandise; 150% for tobacco; 180% for spirits; and an administrative fee of 3% for imports exempt from du ty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated w i t h in 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract. Proceeds must be sold immediately after repatriation to the authorized bank. No. Documentation requirements W i th a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. All export transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank if the va lue is CF 500,000 or more. Presh ipment inspection is required by customs regulations. E f fec t ive January 31, 2000, th is licensing requirement was e l im ina ted; however, notifica- tion is required for statistical purposes. Yes. There are export taxes, but they do not apply to all exports. Certain taxes apply to specific luxury products in favor of professional organizations. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other payments, except investment-related transfers, are subject to indicative l im i ts or bona fide tests. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Repatriation of d iv id ends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct inves tmen ts is authorized and guaranteed und er the Investment Code. Yes. Residents t rave l ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a tr ip. Any amount in excess of these l im i ts is subject to the p r ior approval of the CBC, wh ich is granted if supporting documen ta t ion is provided. Personal payments These transactions are authorized upon presentation of the pertinent documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 COMOROS Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. The same limits apply as for tourist and business travel. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated w i th in one month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital flows between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities CBC authorization is required to effect these transactions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments There is no local market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no local market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There is no local market in these instruments. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a max imum maturity of 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 237 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls relate to the approval of the under ly ing transactions, not to payments or receipts. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Settlement of debt is permitted upon presentation of supporting documentation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing is permitted for economic activities in the Comoros. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending does not take place in practice. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There is no local market in these securities. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 COMOROS Provisions specific to institutional investors No transactions of this type are carried out. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Imports and import payments January 31. The licensing requirement for importing goods was e l im ina ted. Exports and export proceeds January 31. The l icens ing requ irement for exporting goods was e l im ina ted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position as of May 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo is the Congo franc. Effec t ive May 26, 2001, the au thor i t ies a l lowed the Congo franc to float, e l im i n a t i ng the mu l t ip le exchange rate structure. On January 22, 2000, the franc was devaluated to CGF 9 per $1; on June 12, 2000, to CGF 23.5 per $1; and again, on October 24, 2000, to CGF 50 per $1. Before the reclass- ification of the exchange rate system to the category independently f loa t ing, the exchange rate was h igh ly managed by the authorities. An in terbank foreign exchange market is in operation. Charges or commissions are not assessed on in terbank market transactions. In th e ir transactions w i th customers, comme rc ial banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may charge an exchange comm iss ion not exceed ing 1%. The spread between the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for foreign banknotes set by the commer- cial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5%. A charge of 0.2% is lev ied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from non res iden ts to residents must be made in one of 23 conve r t ib le cu r ren- cies whose rates are pub l i shed da i ly by the Central Bank of the Democratic R epub l ic of the Congo (BCC). Residents must make paymen ts to nonres iden ts in one of the listed con- ver t ib le currencies or by crediting nonres ident accounts in Congo francs or in fore ign cur- rency. Settlements w i th the member coun tr ies of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made in SDRs and through Central A f r ican Un i ts of Account (UCAC) accounts established und er arrangements concluded by the BCC w i th the central banks of the countries concerned. These operations are suspended at present, however. Balances on these SDR and UCAC accounts at the end of settlement periods —each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for CEEAC countries —are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. V ir tua l ly all settlements (other than for reexports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through accounts w i th fore ign correspondent banks after c lea r ing th rough the Central Afr ican C lea r ing House th rough its account w i th the BCC. n.a. Residents may use fore ign exchange in transactions among themselves, except in con- j u n c t i on w i th the fo l low ing: res iden t ial rent, educa t ion, health-related expend i tures, and e lec tr ic i ty. The costs for these are f ixed and may be paid on ly in domes t ic cu r rency. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Yes. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control The Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo is a member of the COMESA. There are arrangements w i th Burundi and Rwanda. Payments are made th rough the SDR accounts of the BCC and the central banks of the other two countries. These arrangements, however, are presently inoperative, as is the clearing agreement of the COMESA. Foreign exchange transactions must be conducted through the BCC or au thor ized fore ign exchange dealers. The BCC also supervises authorized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange positions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. On ly na t iona ls of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold w i th in the country outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive m in ing concessions. Foreign ind iv idua ls or corporate persons may do so on ly on behalf of, and for the account of, authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the BCC. There is only one agency that is authorized to export diamonds that are produced with traditional methods. Resident and nonresident travelers must declare the ir foreign exchange ho ld ings upon entering or exiting the country. Travelers exiting the country are authorized to carry an amount of foreign exchange not to exceed $10,000 or its equivalent, except if they are in international transit or on a service mission, in which case they are obliged to declare the amounts of foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Yes. An un l im i ted amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country, but amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Resident Accounts These accounts are permitted and may be credited or debited for international trans- actions without restrictions, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for wh ich the BCC publishes exchange rates. Authorized banks are permitted to open accounts in foreign currency for residents and nonresidents without prior approval from the BCC. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 241 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited or debited for international transactions w i thout restriction. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BCC. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments may not exceed 20% of the f.o.b. value of the imported merchandise. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Importers must obtain an import declaration from an authorized bank that is va l id for 12 months. W i th a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and approved by the foreign agents of the Control Office of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (OCC). Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of up to the equivalent of $2,500 a shipment. Letters of credit Rules for imports fo l low the generally accepted international payment modes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Yes. Certain imports, inc lud ing arms, explosives and ammun i t ion, narcotics, materials con- trary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authorization from the government. Global import licenses are authorized if the imported merchandise is of the same nature and origin. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank w i th in 10 days after the date of shipment. With exports on consignment, export proceeds must be repatriated as soon as the merchandise has been sold. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must obtain an export declaration form that is va l id for three months from an authorized bank. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Presh ipment inspection All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the OCC; coffee exports also requ ire a qua l i ty certificate from the National Coffee Office. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. The export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers A declaration for payments on account of inv is ib le transactions has to be submitted. Trade-related payments Payment of commissions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits or bona fide tests are applied to payment of freight, insurance, and commissions. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other paymen ts Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the authorized banks as needed by the account holders. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts There are controls on treasury b i ll transactions. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 243 Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo. Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Both outward and inward direct investments are permitted, subject to a license from a bank. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Inves tment Code is permitted, subject to prior BCC authorization, only at the t ime of l iqu ida t ion, na t iona l iza t ion, or partial or total transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal cap ital movements Personal capital movements are unrestricted, generally authorized, and do not requ ire licenses. However, they must be carried out through the banking system. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earn ings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Bridge loans requ ire p r ior consent of the BCC. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position, Credit controls Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonres ident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position, Credit controls Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The c e i l ing on the fore ign exchange pos i t ion of each bank is authorized by the BCC. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement January 22. The franc was devalued to CGF 9 per $1. June 12. The franc was deva lued to CGF 23.5 per $1. October 24. The f ranc was deva lued to CGF 50 per $1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Exchange arrangement May 26. The authorities allowed the Congo franc to float, eliminating the mu l t ip le ex- change rate structure. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange mar- ket. Payments to all countries are subject to a commission of 0.75%, with a m in imum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from th is commission are payments of the state, the Postal and Telecommunications Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of off ic ial missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or t ra in ing abroad, payments made on behalf of ind iv idua ls for purchases of books and newspapers not intended for sale, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Repub l ic of Congo. An additional commission of 0.25% is levied on all payments to countries that are not members of the BEAC. No. No. There are no spot or forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their positions on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Republic of Congo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other coun- tries are usua l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in euros. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency n.a. Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a deb it or credit to the Operations Account. Yes. Payments to France and the Operations Account countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted. Settlements and investment transactions w i th all foreign countries, how- ever, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations (DGCRF) in the M in is t ry of Economy, Finance, and Budget (MEFB) supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the MEFB, which has delegated approval authority to the DGCRF. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 REPUBLIC OF CONGO through authorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal and Telecommunications Administration and authorized banks. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior authorization of the MEFB is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The prior authorization of the MEFB is required to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents or nonresidents may export from the Republic of Congo to any member country of the BEAC area of issue, but exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC area are prohibited. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to France or the Operations Account countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment in- struments in French francs. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that the bank- notes had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from a member country of the BEAC area of issue to the Republic of Congo. However, imports of banknotes from outside the area of issue are prohibited. Travelers are authorized to enter the Republic of Congo with banknotes and coins other than CFA francs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. No. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts REPUBLIC OF CONGO 247 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts are intended p r ima r i ly for the use of in terna t ional agencies and embassies. However, pr ior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were ap- p l ied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes exchanged outside the area of issue, these may not be credited to fore ign accounts in euros. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions with countries other than France and the Operations Account coun- t r ies must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from these countries must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank and approved by the Foreign Trade Directorate and the DGCRF. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs An annual import program classifies imports by the fo l low ing zones: (1) the countries of the CEMAC, (2) France, (3) other Operations Account countries, (4) EU countries other than France, and (5) all rema in ing countries. N ine product items under th is program requ i re licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and w i thout licenses. All imports, however, are subject to dec lara t ion. Imports of cement are subject to quotas. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in the Republic of Congo. The common du ty rates of the CEMAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods products requ i r ing special protection. Intra-CEMAC customs duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been in troduced on imports of goods prev ious ly subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. These surcharges are to be eliminated in three to six years, w i th the longer period app ly ing to certain ag r i cu l tu r al and textile products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CEMAC zone must be collected and repatri- ated w i th in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Surrender requ i remen ts Export proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in eight days from the payment due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 REPUBLIC OF CONGO F inanc ing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All export transactions relating to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. All exports require an exchange commitment that must be underwritten w i th in eight days from the export date. Yes. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for inv is ib les to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject only to declaration and presentation of ap- propriate documents to the MEFB for approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not requ ire authorization. The regulations in force guarantee the repatriation of profits, d iv idends, and proceeds from disinvestment abroad. Prior approval Payments for depreciation of direct investments require DGCRF authorization. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Residents trave l ing for tourist or business purposes to France or the other Operations Account countries are allowed to take out an un l im i ted amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in CFA francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 5 m i l l ion a trip; (3) for official travel, the equ iva lent of mission expenses paid to civil servants and other government employees, or a foreign exchange allowance on the same terms for tourists; and (4) for medical expenses, up to CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the time of departure and surrender w i th in eight days of their return all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Allowances in excess of the l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MEFB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments of pensions, medical expenses, studies abroad, a l imony, and f am i ly ma in tenance are authorized upon presentation of supporting documents. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Republic of Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Transfers by residents of amounts smaller than CFAF 500,000 to nonmember countries of the franc zone are subject to s imp le declaration, and those exceeding CFAF 500,000 require pr ior authorization. Transfers to nonmember countries by nonresidents l iv ing in the Repub l ic of Congo for less than one year are subject to authorization. Members of diplomatic missions and employees of in terna t ional organiza- tions are exempt from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 249 Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFB, is l im i ted to the ceilings applied for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All amounts due from residents of foreign countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due. Surrender requirements Proceeds should be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between the Repub l ic of Congo, France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Most interna- tional capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Repub l ic of Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Repub l ic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEFB. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese govern- ment; and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Repub l ic of Congo has p rev ious ly been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requ i rement that may app ly) are ma in- tained over borrowing and lending abroad. All lend ing in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is ob- tained from the MEFB. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 REPUBLIC OF CONGO To residents from nonresidents (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans whose total amounts outstanding do not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations w i th in 20 days. Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEFB. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, where the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least two years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment The prior approval of the MEFB is required. Inward direct investment Investments ( inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in the Republic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo) require the prior approval of the MEFB, unless they invo lve the creation of a mixed public/private-ownership enterprise. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments must be declared to the MEFB w i t h in 20 days. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican colon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax The external value of the co!6n is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among au- thorized traders, which is where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its intervention opera- tions. Foreign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. The government and public sector institutions conduct foreign ex- change transactions with the state commercial banks and the CB at the official reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market du r ing the day. During 2000, the rate of the crawl was 6.7% on an annual basis. A tax of 15%, calculated on the average daily spread between buying and selling rates, is applied to all foreign exchange transactions in the exchange market. This amount must be transferred to the CB w i th in one day. Effective March 6, 2000, the tax was lowered to 10%. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in dollars or in local currencies. n.a. n.a. Costa Rica is a member of the CACM. Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SUGEF). International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Na tural and ju r id i c al persons may buy or sell domestically produced gold (except national trade archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of foreign currency are free but are usua l ly carried out through the CB. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 COSTA RICA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Customs tariffs on most goods range from 5% to 20%. In addition, the fo l low ing taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (2) selective consumption taxes at rates ranging from zero to 75%. Imports of fuel are made by Refmeria Costa Ricense de Petroleo and imports of grain by the Consejo Nacional de Producci6n. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. F inanc ing requirements n.a. Documentat ion requirements An export form must be f i led. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are required for armaments, mun i t ions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the MEC; sugar from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane; beans, rice, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and thoroughbred cattle from the National Council of Production; airplanes from the C iv il Aviation Board and the MEC; Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the National Museum; tobacco from the Tobacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and w i ld animals and plants of the forest from the M in is try of Agr icu l ture and Livestock; bananas from the National Banana Corporation; and coffee from the Coffee Institute. In addition, when there is a lien ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 253 Export taxes on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank 's approval is required before the CB w i ll grant an export license. Taxes are levied on traditional exports and, in some cases, are graduated in l ine w i th international prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside Central America. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on all profits, d iv idends, and remittances of interest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or their financial entities recognized by the CB as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, and for interest paymen ts on government borrowing abroad. Informa t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Repatriation must take place w i th in 90 days of the end of the fiscal year, Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The MOF has been authorized by the national assembly to issue bonds in in terna t ional markets. Such bonds are to be issued annually —beginning in 2000 and con t inu ing for four years —in amounts equivalent to $250 million, except for the year 2003, when the amount w i ll be increased to the equivalent of $450 million. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The National Budget Authority (composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, and the President of the CB) is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Private commercial banks, finance companies, and cooperatives must in fo rm the CB when contracting credits abroad. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 COSTA RICA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Exchange arrangement March 6. The foreign exchange tax was reduced to 10% from 15%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. Banks are authorized to charge a max imum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in French francs. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract foreign exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Cote d ' lvo i re is l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made mainly in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are allowed freely. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in is try of Economy and Finance (MEF). The only transactions that remain subject to the pr ior au- thorization of this institution relate to inward direct investment and all outward invest- ments; the soliciting of funds in Cote d' lvo ire for placement in foreign countries; and do- mestic and foreign currency accounts of residents. Regulations governing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval process for most for- eign exchange transactions to authorized banks. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Yes. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 COTE D'lVOIRE Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require pr ior au thor iza t ion from the MEF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits at local banks. Residents trave l ing outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l- lion a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. There are no controls, but the amounts must be declared at customs. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 1 m i l l i on must declare them to customs upon entry. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or w i th banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MEF and with the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is requ i red. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i rcu la t ing ou ts ide the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior authorization of the MEF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit the ir foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of purchas ing foreign currency on the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 257 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the goods have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Inspection for qua l i ty and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion; im- ports valued between CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion and CFAF 3 m i l l ion may be subject to random inspection. LCs are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Account countries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requ i r ing prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requ i r ing li- censes issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the M in is try of Commerce. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a CET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). In addition, a 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. value of the imports, were introduced. On the same date, the statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to banks within 30 days of the payment due date. The author- ized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade, wh ich issues a certificate of origin, as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, requ i re pr ior authorization of the MEF, w i th the exception of articles w i th only a small gold content, travelers' personal effects we igh ing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of the ir face va lue and denomination). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 With quotas Expo rt taxes Other export taxes COTE D'lVOIRE Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through an auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the regulatory body of these commodities. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv i s ib l es to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not requ i re au thor iza t ion. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval The transfer abroad of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be effected freely, but must be made through an authorized bank and reported to the MEF for statistical pur- poses. Payments of depreciation of direct investments are not expressly provided for in the legislation and, as such, require prior MEF approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Quantitative limits The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. There are no l im i ts on transfers related to studies abroad, fam i ly maintenance, or a l imony. Such payments are made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with non-WAEMU members must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries w i th respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE Capital Transactions 259 Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of controls. Capital transfers to all other countries require authori- zation from the MEF, and a maximum of 75% of investment abroad may be financed by foreign loans. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. Capital inflows to WAEMU coun- tries are unrestricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declaration, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. In line with the new direction of economic policy aimed at attracting foreign investment, new exchange laws currently being adopted by the WAEMU member states provide for the elimination of all controls on capital inflows. In the provisions contained in the new exchange laws, the term "foreigner" refers to coun- tries that are not members of the franc zone. However, with respect to the local issue and offer for sale of foreign securities, the term "foreigner" means all the countries outside the territory of the member state concerned. With the exception of the issue and sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. By their nature, however, these operations are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the sale of foreign securities by residents and to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of investments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MEF. There are no controls, provided that a prior declaration is made in the case of direct investment. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire by nonresidents require prior authorization by the RCPSFM. Securities issued or offered for sale by a nonresident with prior authorization may be pur- chased freely by a resident. The same applies to payments for these purchases by residents, subsequent to the presentation of supporting documentation. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MEF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior authorization of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Ivoirien corporations, foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to the MEF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior dec- laration to the MEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 COTE D'lVOIRE On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market ins trumen ts through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market ins trumen ts on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the MEF. The transfer of the proceeds from these operations is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MEF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Residents may purchase or sell options abroad freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior MEF approval. Such approval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or for those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by resi- dents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of these credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days fo l low ing the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from payments for services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to the presentation of the relevant proof of the execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as we ll as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submitted with the required documentation to the MEF. These facilities may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct investment company established in Cote d'lvoire and its parent com- pany abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MEF. To residents from nonresidents The same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 261 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Prior MEF approval is required. A max imum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must subm it a wr i t ten request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged w i th making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Inward direct investment These investments, inc lud ing the ir transfer between nonresidents, are subject to pr ior declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MEF for informa t ion purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is sub- ject to the prior authorization of the MEF. If the re inves tment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investment abroad by a resident is subject to p r ior approval by the MEF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct inves tment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be free ly transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the requ ired documen ta t ion to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MEF. These transactions require prior MEF authorization. The ind iv idua ls concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of f inanc ial institutions. Lenders must obtain prior authorization from the MEF, unless the amount is less than CFAF 100 m i l l ion and the interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. Import and export loans do not requ i re pr ior au thor iza t ion either. Except for inheritances and legacies, for wh ich payments are generally authorized, payments pertaining to other operations requ i re pr ior authorization of the MEF. Imm ig ran ts who have obtained resident status must obtain pr ior au thor iza t ion from the MEF to settle debts incurred abroad w h i le they were nonresidents. Upon presentation of em igra t ion documents, the parties concerned may, w i thout p r ior au- thor iza t ion, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Amoun ts in excess may be transferred with MEF authorization. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be re- ported to the MEF for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 COTE D'lVOIRE Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial ins t i tu t ions are not permitted to hold l iqu id assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover current operations. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions are free, but are subject to prior authorization by the MEF and the BCEAO in the case of loans, financial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or purchases of foreign currency- denominated securities issued in Cote d' lvo ire require prior authorization by the MEF with the approval of the BCEAO. These purchases require the prior approval of the MEF. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MEF w i th the approval of the BCEAO. The same regulations apply as for foreign investment. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are no p ruden t ial ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 1. The WAEMU introduced a GET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). January 7. A 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy were introduced on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. value. January 1. The statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of March 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian kuna. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the domestic foreign exchange market. The Croatian National Bank (CNB) may set intervention exchange rates, which it applies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market for leveling undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CNB has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a limited forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions The same regulations apply as for capital transactions in foreign currencies. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Yes. Yes. Yes. This is allowed only in specific cases. Bilateral payment arrangements Yes. Operative There is an arrangement w i th Italy that applies only between certain districts. Adm in istrat ion of control The CNB formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign ex- change regulations. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register w i th the commercial courts. Imports and exports are subject to exchange controls to prevent fraudulent and fictitious imports and to facilitate enforcement of existing restrictions on certain capital flows. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. Yes. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 CROATIA In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on certain financial transactions w i th the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Angola, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Yes. The exportation of unprocessed gold and gold coins by producers of gold or by authorized commercial banks is subject to the approval of the CNB. Importation of gold is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Economy (MOE). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes As a measure against money laundering, kuna or foreign exchange cash transactions above HRK 40,000 should be reported to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted The exportation of domestic and foreign currency in cash or checks must be declared to customs. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be exported with special permission from the CNB. Resident natural persons may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 1,000. An additional amount up to the equivalent of DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. The CNB may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be imported with special permission from the CNB. Resident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the CNB has the authority to allow resident ju r id ical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and to meet the requirement of regular foreign trade activities abroad. The law also makes specific provisions for resident jur id ical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the CNB. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.r. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident jur id ical persons may convert domestic currency into a foreign currency for the purpose of their business operations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely w i th foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad converting domestic currency. As a measure against money laundering, nonresident jur id ical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 a month without special permission from the CNB. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may withdraw up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000 each month from their deposit accounts. Larger amounts may be withdrawn with CNB permission. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. A decision has ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts CROATIA 265 been published on the documentation required for opening foreign exchange and domestic currency accounts by nonresidents. These accounts may be opened with the proceeds from sales of goods and services; fore ign exchange transferred from abroad and converted into domestic currency; profits earned on invested capital; proceeds from sales of stock or shares; and proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of investments. Nonresident persons may w i thd raw in cash up to HRK 15,000 a mon th from the ir deposit accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange may be purchased w i th funds held in these accounts w i thout restriction. Blocked accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (natural persons) of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, blocked since 1992, have been replaced by claims on the Croatian government. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Advance payments and down payments for imports are permitted under certain circumstances. Imports are subject to exchange controls. An invoice or agreement is required for transfers. There are no import quotas, although the trade law allows for such quotas in pr inc ip le, un- der conditions envisaged by WTO rules. All imports are free from licensing requ i remen ts except for a list of products whose importation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs, and narcotics), and a small numb er of other products (notably iron tubes and bars—except for those from WTO members). Imports are not limited on the basis of quantity or value, except as stated in relevant inter- national conventions. Licenses are issued on a case-by-case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of indus t r ial products are subject to customs tar iffs of up to 18.8%. For a numb er of agricultural and food products, compound duties (ad valorem plus specific customs duty) are applied. The max imum ad valorem duty is 72% and, where compound duty is applied, the maximum ad valorem component is 15%. The exemption for duty-free imports by tra- velers is HRK 300. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tar iffs and taxes (VAT 22%) are applied. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the equivalent of HRK 5,000 are subject to a s imp l if ied customs procedure w i th a u n i f i ed tar iff rate of 10%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import ta r i f fs and taxes are applied. Re tu rn ing citizens who have resided abroad for at least f ive years w i thout interruption may import household effects that were in use for at least twe lve months, as well as goods for private business purposes—subject to customs approval —without pay- ing customs tar iffs or taxes. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonres iden ts for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Imports under special customs procedures, such as temporary imports and goods to be processed under customs surveillance, are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in f u ll w i th in 150 days of date of exportation. This period may be extended for 60 days w i th permission from the CNB. If payment terms in excess of 150 days have been agreed to w i th foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be registered w i th the CNB. Export proceeds from the countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 CROATIA F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes of the CIS must be repatriated w i th in 180 days, with the possibility of a further 60-day extension, subject to the approval of the CNB. No. Yes. Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects). No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those applying to exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, except in central bank short-term securities in the primary market. In general, outward investment in capital and money market securities is not allowed for either natural or nonbank juridical persons. There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pen- sion funds. There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pen- sion funds. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Only purchases in the pr imary market are restricted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds and other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for financial credits. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds and other debt securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 267 Controls on credit operations Foreign credit operations have to be registered with the CNB. Commercial credits For statistical purposes only, such transactions have to be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons may extend financial credits only to nonresident jur id ical persons in which they have the majority of voting rights. To residents from nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons may obtain f inanc ial credits from abroad only for pe r fo rm ing activities they are registered for. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons may issue guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies only for perform ing activities they are registered for. To residents from nonresidents For statistical purposes only, such transactions have to be registered w i th the CNB. Controls on direct investment Foreign direct investment must be registered with the CNB for statistical purposes. Outward direct investment Natural persons may not make foreign direct investments abroad. Foreign direct investment abroad by jur id ical persons is free under certain circumstances, but must be registered with the MOE w i th in 30 days of signing the contract. Inward direct investment Investments must be registered w i th the commercial courts. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, in c lud ing tax payments. A natural person may not transfer capital abroad for the purpose of buying real estate. Juridical persons may buy real estate abroad for the purpose of foreign direct investment. Subject to the permission of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the pr ior opinion of the Minister of Justice, foreign natural and juridical persons may, if not otherwise determined by law and if under the assumption of reciprocity, acquire the ownership of real estate in Croatia. For statistical purposes only, such transactions have to be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents Na tural persons may not grant credits to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Resident natural persons are obliged to use foreign f inanc ial credits through the authorized domestic banks. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Cash gifts and endowments greater than the equivalent of DM 3,000 must be approved by the CNB. Transfer abroad by emigrants The approval of the CNB is required. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Domestic commercial banks may not give foreign exchange credits to resident natural per- sons. Commercial banks may, under certain circumstances, give foreign exchange credits to ju r id i c al persons for activities they are registered for. Foreign commercial banks may extend credit in foreign exchange to both natural and ju r id ical persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 CROATIA Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange No. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements On November 8, 2000, the reserve ratio was un i f ied at 23.5% for deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign exchange, and the base for deposits denominated in foreign ex- change was extended. (The previous reserve ratio for kuna was 28.5%, wh i le on foreign exchange with maturities of up to three months it was 55%. A transitional ratio of 26.5% on kuna deposits was used during October 1-31, 2000.) The calculation period for the new unified rate follows the calendar month, wh i le the maintenance period also lasts a month, but begins the eighth of the calendar month to the seventh of the following month. Effec- tive January 8, 2001, 40% (previously 50%) of the required reserves has to be deposited in a special account with the CNB. Effective March 7, 2001, the deposited kuna component of required reserves is remunerated at 3.7% (previously 4.5%), wh i le the remunera t ion of the foreign exchange component is related to the average interest rate earned on the CNB's placements abroad. Liquid asset requirements Short-term foreign exchange liabilities must be covered by 53% short-term foreign exchange assets of a maturity of less than one year. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 30% of the bank's Tier I capital. On December 1, 2000, the l im it on open posi- tion in foreign exchange was reduced to 25% from 30% of a bank's risk-weighted capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. A law on obligatory and voluntary pension funds is in effect. Investment funds may not invest more than 5% of the value of the fund in the securities of a single issuer. However, this limit may increase to 10% provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addition, investment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer only if the total face value of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face value of all the bonds of the same issuer, if they are in circula- tion. For purposes of determining this limit, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one-half the ir face va lue. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 8. Reserve requirements were unified at 23.5% for deposits in domestic and foreign currency. December 1. The l im it on open position in foreign exchange was reduced to 25% from 30% of a bank's risk-weighted capital. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 8. The m in imum amount of required reserves for a deposit account in foreign exchange was reduced to 40% from 50%. March 7. The amount of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was lowered to 3.7% from 4.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents The Cyprus pound is pegged to the euro at a central rate of €1.7086 per £C 1, w i th margins around the euro central rate of 15%, increased from 2.25% effective January 1, 2001. Sub- ject to certain limitations, inc lud ing a l im it on spreads between buy ing and se l l ing rates, author-ized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buy ing and selling rates. The Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) monitors the foreign exchange rates and may intervene to safeguard the smooth func t ion ing of the market and the stability of the cur- rency. The CBC is also responsible for organizing the daily f ix ing session w i th the com- mercial banks, at which the official foreign exchange rates ("fixing exchange rates") for the pound are determined. No. No. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated w i th the ir customers. Un t il January 1, 2001, authorized dealers were allowed to purchase forward cover from the CBC at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. Effective January 1, 2001, the CBC w i thdrew from the forward exchange market. Forward foreign exchange contracts may be u t i l ized by anyone who has entered into a contractual agreement. The forward cover may be extended to any period, provided it does not exceed the duration of the unde r ly ing obligation. The CBC offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases of dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months and for imports normally for up to n ine months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no restrictions on contracts between residents denominated in foreign currency. Actual payments between residents in foreign currency are permitted only when the resi- dents invo lved ma in ta in foreign currency accounts. Payment arrangements No. Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation with authorized dealers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a large number of bona fide transactions. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Although restrictions imposed against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted, bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 CYPRUS In accordance w i th UN sanctions Economic sanctions against Iraq, Sierra Leone, and the UNITA movement in Angola pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions are administered by the CBC and relevant government departments. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Cyprus for num isma t ic collection purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bu l l ion at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bu l l ion requires the permission of the CBC. Authorized dealers in gold are perm i t ted to import gold bu l l ion on ly for the purpose of disposing of it to indu s t r ial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 100. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. In the case of fa i lure to declare the banknotes imported on arrival, nonresidents may export up to the equ iva lent of $1,000 in Cypriot or foreign banknotes. Au thor ized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks in exchange for foreign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from author- ized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival, as we ll as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds. In addition, departing nonresidents may convert, through authorized dealers, Cypriot banknotes up to £C 500 into foreign banknotes, wh ich they can export. Nonresidents entering Cyprus are advised to declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes in order to facilitate their reexport, deposit with authorized dealers, or use in purchasing immovab le property or goods for export. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Residents dea l ing w i th transit or tr iangu lar trade, manufacturers-exporters, hoteliers, law- yers, accountants, and stockbrokers may hold foreign currency accounts. Other residents who have receipts and payments in foreign currency may hold such accounts on ly w i th CBC approval. Approval of the CBC is required for residents other than those referred to above and below. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency accounts or external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad all of their foreign currency holdings and earn- ings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident ind iv idua ls temporarily wo rk ing abroad may maintain their foreign currency earnings in foreign currency accounts, external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts w i th banks abroad. Approval of the CBC is required for residents other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad CBC approval is required for residents other than repatriates and residents temporar i ly working abroad to hold these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 271 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited w i th f u n ds from external sources and au thor ized paymen ts from residents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the same ru les as for fo re ign currency accounts apply. Blocked accounts Effective January 1, 2001, blocked accounts were abolished. Un t il that time, they were ma in ta ined in the name of nonres iden ts for funds that cou ld not be immed ia te ly transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds could either be he ld as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked f u n ds was freely transferab le to the nonresident benef ic iary or could be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In add i t ion to income, up to one-third of the p r inc ipal or £C 50,000, wh ichever is h ighe r, cou ld be released for transfer abroad in each calendar year. Thus, blocked accounts were in practice transferable abroad w i th in two years after the date of blocking. Also, blocked funds could be released for the fo l low ing payments in Cyprus: (1) to meet the ho lde r 's personal expenses in Cyprus (up to £C 10,000 a year w i thout reference to the CBC); and (2) to purchase any securities quoted on the Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses The CBC examines remittances to supp l iers exceeding £C 50,000 for bona fide purposes. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the impor ta t ion of goods in to Cyprus; for larger amoun ts, approval by the CBC is requ ired. Import licenses are required for a sma ll number of commodities. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Most imports are free of licensing requ i remen ts. A license is requ ired for a sma ll numb er of commodities prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Indus try, and Tourism (MCIT). Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Imports from Iraq are restricted in accordance w i th UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose va lue exceeds £C 10,000 are subject to exchange control mon i to r ing to ensure the repatriation of the export proceeds w i th in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Export proceeds must be received w i th in six months of shipment, unless specially authorized by the CBC. In general, export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of exportation. However, manufacturers are required to convert in to domestic currency only 50% of export proceeds; they may deposit the r em a in ing 50% in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 CYPRUS F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Effective March 31, 2000, in accordance w i th international agreements, goods that may be used for chemical or biological weapons, as well as nuclear-related goods ( inc lud ing dual-use goods) are subject to licensing in order to he lp preserve international peace and security. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Au thor ized dealers have been delegated the authority to carry out payments for most i n v i s i- ble transactions w i thout reference to the CBC. E f fec t ive November 20, 2000, au thor ized dealers were allowed to carry out payments for business, personal, and other services of up to £C 100,000 without reference to the CBC. CBC approval is required for larger amounts. Indicative l im i ts apply for certain transactions. Payments above those l im i ts requ ire CBC approval, wh ich is subject to the presentation of the appropriate documen ta t ion. Effec t ive May 30, 2000, authorized dealers are allowed to carry out payments for f re ight of up to £C 500,000 (prior to that date, £C 5,000) without reference to the CBC. For amounts above this limit, documentary evidence must be subsequently submitted to the CBC. Au- thorized dealers may also carry out payments for insurance without reference to the CBC. Prior approval Commissions in excess of 10% of the value of exported goods require CBC approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts for the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments Profits and d iv idends and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad without l im i ta t ion after payment of due taxes. Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. Authorized dealers may approve, without reference to the CBC, applications by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents and hotels up to £C 10,000 for each organized trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test The indicative l im it for tourist travel is £C 1,000 a person a trip. The CBC approves applications for h igher amounts to cover bona fide expenses w i thout l im i t a t ion. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Prior approval is requ ired for the transfer of pensions and for other personal paymen ts exceeding the quan t i ta t ive or indicative l im i t s. For studies abroad, exchange allowances are based on the cost of l i v i ng in each coun try, wh ich is reviewed annua l ly. Amounts h igher than the ind ica t ive l im i ts for l i v i ng expenses require CBC authorization. There is no l im it on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tu i t ion fees and greater amounts may be allowed w i th the approval of the CBC. The ind ica t ive l im it is £C 5,000 for medical expenses abroad. U n l im i t ed add i t ional amounts are provided with the approval of the CBC. For family maintenance and ali- mony payment, the indicative l im it is £C 500 every six months. Nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus by residents and are paid in local currency may deposit w i th authorized dealers their entire wages in cases where the terms of employment provide for room and board, or in other cases, up to 80% of the ir mon th ly remuneration or £C 400 monthly, whichever is higher, in external or foreign currency accounts. For deposits or transfers of amounts in excess of the l im i ts, approval of the CBC is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 273 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Authorized dealers may issue credit cards va l id abroad to any resident. For cash withdrawals, the l im it is £C 300 a trip. Authorized dealers may approve payments for royalties and license fees in accordance with relevant agreements, without limits. They may also carry out payments for subscrip- t ion /membersh ip fees, consulting/legal fees, and other services, up to £C 100,000. For higher amounts, CBC approval is required, based on an examination of the bona f ide na- ture of the payment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Generally, receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. However, a large number of residents have been allowed to ma in ta in part of these proceeds in foreign currency accounts and use these balances for international payments. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of shares of banks listed in the CSE is subject to a ceiling of 50% of each bank's issued capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 7, 2000, the acquisition of shares of other pub l ic companies, except banks, by natural or ju r id ical persons from EU member states is free, wh i le the participa- tion in the share capital of such companies by other persons continues to be sub ject to a 49% limit. Effective August 16, 2000, the CBC abolished the 5% limit on the acquisition of shares of Cypriot companies, other than banks, listed on the CSE by a natural or ju r id i c al person from a non-EU country. Pub l ic companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transactions w i th nonresidents without reference to the CBC, subject to the l im it described above. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Effective December 5, 2000, authorized dealers were allowed to approve applications by nonresidents for transferring abroad the proceeds from sales of securities quoted on the CSE up to £C 500,000 w i thout reference to the CBC. Applications for greater amounts are referred to the CBC. Outside of institutional investors, outward portfolio investment is permitted for the follow- ing residents: Cypriot repatriates and residents temporar i ly wo rk ing abroad who may freely use the ir balances in foreign currency or external accounts to purchase securities abroad, and resident employees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered by the ir employers. Portfolio investment by other residents is subject to CBC approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the ce i l ings described above for purchases by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 CYPRUS Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase bonds admitted to the CSE, inc lud ing bonds issued by pub l ic companies and government bonds denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Except for banks and institutional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad may purchase such securities by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase treasury b i l ls denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is required for residents to purchase such ins trumen ts. Purchase abroad by residents Except for banks and ins t i tu t ional investors, on ly Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad may purchase money market instruments abroad by using the ir balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is requ ired. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Effec t ive January 7, 2000, acquisition of securities issued by pub l ic investment companies in Cyprus is free for natural and jur id ical persons from EU states and is subject to a ceiling of 49% for other persons. Prior to that date, the acquisition of such securities was permitted w i th in the l im i ts applied to capital market securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Except for ins t i tu t ional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily work- ing abroad may purchase such securities abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Export proceeds must be received w i th in six months of shipment, unless specially author- ized by the CBC. Credits w i th a maturity of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely granted. Other credits require approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with a maturity of up to 200 days for imports of goods to Cyprus may be negotiated freely. Other credits are subject to approval of the CBC. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents other than authorized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits w i thout the approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Short-term borrowing is subject to approval by the CBC. On January 1, 2001, med ium- and long-term credits were liberalized. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees w i thout reference to the CBC in several cases in c lud ing tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the refund of advance payments, and guarantees in respect of any other transactions where an immediate payment to the nonresident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 275 beneficiary could be made under the existing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior approval of the CBC is required. Un t il January 6, 2000, approval of the CBC was required. The amount of capital that could be directly transferred abroad was l im i ted to £C 0.5 m i l l ion. If the issue of a guarantee alone was required, the amount of the guarantee could not exceed £C 1 m i l l ion. In cases where direct transfer of capital as we ll as a guarantee were required, the total amount cou ld not exceed £C 1 m i l l ion, provided the amount of capital to be directly transferred did not exceed £C 0.5 m i l l ion. In exceptional cases where it appeared certain that a large part of the investment was to be repatriated in a short time, the governor of the CBC could approve larger amounts. E f fec t ive January 7, 2000, residents of Cyprus are allowed to undertake direct investment abroad without restriction as to the sector of the investment or the amount of foreign exchange invo lved. The transfer of capital abroad is effected as soon as the CBC is satisfied that the direct investment is genu ine. Where the foreign exchange cost is sub- stantial, the CBC reserves the right to take measures in order to mitigate the impact on the balance of payments. Un t il January 7, 2000, foreign participation in the agricultural sector of up to 49% was allowed. Applications were examined by the CBC in consultation w i th the Ministry of Agr icu l ture, Na tural Resources, and Env i ronmen t. The ind ica t ive m i n im um amount of investment was £C 100,000. There was no l im it on the percentage of foreign participation in the manu fac tu r ing sector, or in wholesale and retail trade. The CBC handled the applications if the foreign partici- pation did not exceed 49% and the amount to be invested was lower than £C 750,000. Otherwise, app l ica t ions were considered jo in t ly by the CBC and the MCIT. For most other activities, foreign participation of up to 100% was permitted. Over 70 types of services were classified in to two categories for wh ich the ind ica t ive m i n im um l im i ts of investment were £C 50,000 and £C 100,000. Investors in the tour ism sector were subject to the government tourism policy applicable at the time. That policy provided for up to 49% of foreign participation in hotels and other tourism establishments. However, up to 100% of foreign participation could be allowed for supplementary tourism projects such as golf courses, marinas, etc. In tourist and travel agencies, up to 49% of foreign participation was allowed, provided the foreign investor's contribution was at least £C 150,000. A 49% limit also applied to restaurants and recrea- t ional centers as we ll as agencies representing imported goods or services. Applications for direct investment in bank ing, insurance and other f inanc ial companies, pub l ic companies, newspaper and magazine pub l i sh ing houses, and new a ir l ines were considered on a case-by-case basis, and the extent of allowable foreign participation was decided on the merits of each ind iv idual case. Effective January 7, 2000, inward direct investment from EU states is free, except in certain sectors that are governed by specific restrictive legislation, i.e., tertiary education and pub- lic u t i l i t ies (no foreign participation is allowed); radio and television stations (foreign shareholding is l im i ted to 2.5% a person); and publication of newspapers and magazines (subject to authorization by the Minister of the Interior). Inward direct investments from non-EU countries are subject to the three sector-specific restrictions listed above and are subject to CBC approval. App l ica t ions from non-EU investors are approved for up to 100% participation in most cases, provided that national security matters are not compromised, there are no adverse env i ronmen tal effects, and the amount to be invested is adequate. For- eign participation from non-EU countries is l im i ted to 49% in agriculture, hotels and travel agencies, restaurants and other recreational centers, and agencies representing imported goods or services. Permission of the CBC for the repatriation of the proceeds of sale or l iqu ida t ion of approved investments ( inc lud ing capital gains) is readily granted at any time after payment of taxes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 CYPRUS Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements In accordance w i th the Immovab le Property Acqu is i t ion (Aliens) Law, a l iens cannot ac- quire immovable property in Cyprus other than by inheritance, except w i th the approval of the District Officer, and they are required to pay the purchase price w i th foreign exchange. When the real estate concerned exceeds two donums (one donum = 1,338 sq m), approval may be granted only for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) a pr imary or secondary residence not exceeding three donums; (2) professional or commercial premises; or (3) premises for in- dustry sectors deemed beneficial to the Cypriot economy. Nonresidents of Cypriot o r ig in do not need the approval of the District Officer. Proceeds are transferab le abroad after payment of taxes. If the real estate was not acqu ired w i th foreign exchange, the proceeds of the sale are transferable at the rate of £C 1 m i l l i on or one-third of the total amoun t, wh ichever is higher, a calendar year. Loans Prior approval of the CBC is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants For gifts or endowments exceeding £C 500 every six months, and for the transfer of funds inher i ted from residents by nonresidents, pr ior approval of the CBC is requ i red. All f u n ds inherited by nonresidents are transferable abroad after payment of taxes. In case the imm ig rant debtor does not ma in ta in su f f ic ient balances in foreign currency or external accounts to repay a debt abroad, approval of the CBC is granted for repayment through local funds. At the time of emigration, emigrants may transfer abroad up to £C 100,000 of their local funds. Af ter the ir settlement abroad, they may transfer any rema in ing local fund s. In addi- t ion, emigrants who are Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were prev ious ly residents in other countries and decide to emigrate again from Cyprus) may transfer abroad at the t ime of emigration all the ir funds that they prev ious ly imported in to Cyprus and converted in to local fund s. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval from the CBC is requ i red. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Au tho r ized dealers are allowed to ma in ta in wo rk ing balances w i th foreign banks w i t h in limits prescribed by the CBC, as well as deposits abroad held as cover for their deposit l i ab i l i t i es in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers are allowed to grant med ium- and long-term loans in foreign currencies to nonresidents of up to 20% of the ir deposit l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. They are also allowed to grant loans and credits to international businesses registered in Cyprus of up to 10% of the ir deposit l i ab i l i t i es in fore ign currencies. In addition, authorized dealers are allowed to lend Cyprus pounds up to a m ax imum of £C 5,000 to nonresident i n d i v i d u a ls temporar i ly l iv ing in Cyprus, w i thout reference to the CBC. For greater amounts, prior approval of the CBC is required. E f fec t ive December 12, 2000, authorized dealers are allowed to lend any amount in local currency to nonresidents to finance the ir activities in Cyprus. Such transactions do not require reference to the CBC. Au thor ized dealers may grant certain short-term credit fac i l i t ies in fore ign currency (e.g., d iscoun t ing b i l ls of exchange) to residents w i thout reference to the CBC. For other short- term lend ing to residents in foreign currency, prior approval of the CBC was requ ired u n t il Janua ry 1, 2001. On that date, commercial banks in Cyprus were authorized to grant me- d ium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to residents w i thout reference to the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 277 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies, held either by nonres i- dents or by residents, are d i f fe rent from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements A m i n im um reserve requirement of 8% applies on ly to deposits in Cyprus pounds. L iqu id assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 60% of deposit l iab i l i t ies in fore ign currencies must be maintained. For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed l iqu id i ty ratio. However, the liquidity positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for prudential purposes. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresidents' deposit accounts in foreign exchange or in domestic currency are not treated d ifferen t ly from deposit accounts of residents. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits There are prescribed assets that may be held with respect to accounts in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers may purchase securities issued abroad, such as securities issued by sol- vent foreign governments and traded in recognized stock exchanges abroad, w i th in certain l im i ts prescribed by the CBC. Yes. Nonresidents may acquire up to 50% of the share capital of resident banks listed on the CSE. The acquisition of 10% or more of a bank's share capital by any resident or nonresi- dent person, either alone or with any associates, is subject to prior approval of the CBC. The net open/uncovered position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies may not exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of the author- ized dealer's capital base, except with the prior approval of the CBC. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurance companies may invest abroad up to 25% (up from 20%) of their trust fund, in securities quoted in a number of foreign stock exchanges. Public investment companies may also invest abroad a maximum of 25% of their portfolio. Effective February 2, 2000, the CBC imposed a ceiling of £C 5 m i l l ion on investments abroad by public companies. As a result, these companies may invest in securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges up to 25% of their portfolio or £C 5 million, whichever is smaller. Effective September 1, 2000, this ceiling was raised to £C 10 m i l l ion. The CBC approves applications by other institu- tional investors on a case-by-case basis. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Cyprus Stock Exchange and Securities Laws and the regulations issued under these laws apply to transactions by nonresidents and residents in a nondiscriminating manner. Changes During 2000 Exports and export proceeds March 31. Exports of goods that may be used for chemical or biological weapons, as we ll as nuclear-related goods (including dual-use goods) were made subject to licensing. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers May 30. Authorized dealers were allowed to carry out payments for freight of up to £C 500,000 (previously £C 5,000) w i thout reference to the CBC. November 20. Authorized dealers were allowed to carry out payments for business, personal, and other services of up to £C 100,000 without reference to the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 CYPRUS Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on direct investment January 7. Except for banks, the CBC abolished exchange controls concerning the percent- age of the share capital of Cypriot companies listed on the CSE that may be acquired by citizens of EU member states. August 16. The CBC abolished the 5% l im it on the acquisition of shares of Cypriot companies, other than banks, listed on the CSE by a natural or legal person from a non-EU country. December 5. Authorized dealers were allowed to approve applications by nonresidents for transferring abroad the proceeds from sales of securities quoted on the CSE up to £C 500,000 without reference to the CBC. January 7. Direct investments by citizens of EU states were liberalized, except for tertiary education, public utilities, radio and television, and the publication of newspapers and magazines. Non-EU citizens were subject to these restrictions as well. January 7. Outward direct investments were liberalized. In conjunction with this, the CBC abolished the limit of £C 1 m i l l ion on the amount of trade transferable abroad for a direct investment and removed the criteria for evaluating applications, except for bona fide tests. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions December 72. Authorized dealers were allowed to lend any amount in local currency to nonresidents to finance their activities in Cyprus, without reference to the CBC. Provisions specific to institutional in- vestors February 2. The CBC imposed a ceiling of £C 5 m i l l ion on investments abroad by pub l ic companies. September I. The ceiling on investments abroad by public companies was raised to £C 10 million. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January I. The width of the band around the euro central rate at which the Cyprus pound is pegged was increased to 15% from 2.25%. Nonresident accounts Capital transactions January 1. The CBC withdrew from the forward exchange market. January L Blocked accounts were abolished. Controls on credit operations January 1. Medium- and long-term credits to residents from nonresidents were liberalized. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Commercial banks in Cyprus were authorized to grant medium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to residents without reference to the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external va lue of the koruna is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Czech National Bank (CNB) may intervene in the foreign exchange market in order to smooth large intraday volatility swings of the euro/koruna rate. The CNB publishes daily rates of some selected currencies against the koruna for customs and accounting purposes. Commercial banks set their own exchange rate with no limitation. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. The Czech Republic is a member of the CEFTA. The MOF and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations, in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the MOF exercises authority over m in is t r ies and other administrative authorities, mun ic ipal authorities, budg- etary organizations, state funds, and all types of credits being extended to or accepted by the Czech Repub l ic. The CNB exercises au thor i ty over the activities of all other agents. There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghan is tan and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. Effective October 10, 2000, most restrictions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) W i th some exceptions, gold bu l l ion may be traded only with authorized agents (generally banks). Trade in gold coins is free. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting obligations on exports and imports exceeding CZK 200,000. Effective August 1, 2000, th is l im it was raised to CZK 350,000. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 CZECH REPUBLIC On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Approval was required (w i th some exceptions) un t il January 1, 2001, when operations on deposit accounts carried out by residents with foreign credit ins t i tu t ions abroad were liberalized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in the Czech Republic. All trans- fers abroad from these accounts may be made freely. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Effective October 10, 2000, most restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses No. No. No. Yes. Automatic import licenses are required for some agriculture and food products, tobacco and tobacco products, raw materials, fue ls and mineral oils, chemical products and pro- ducts of similar industries, used textile products, poisons, auxiliary chemical substances and the ir precursors, pharmaceutical products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs CZECH REPUBLIC 281 Nonau toma t ic import licenses are requ i red for agr icu l ture and food products and raw materials from Slovakia, and black coal from Ukraine and Poland. All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 30.1% for indus tr ial goods and up to 125% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Under a customs un ion agreement, imports from the Slovak Repub l ic are exempt from customs duties, excluding sugar and other sweeteners. Imports from deve lop ing coun- tries are granted preferences. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. Automatic export licenses are required for some raw materials, raw leathers, wood and wooden products, precious and common metals, iron, steel and its derivatives (when exported to the EU and the United States), poisons, aux i l ia ry chemical substances and precursors, pharmaceutical products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic export licenses are required for some l ive animals and other an imal and plant products (for the year 2001), and textile goods exported to Canada and the United States. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Remittance of investment-related payments is permitted, once tax ob l iga t ions have been met. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature may be affected by regulations on inward direct investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 CZECH REPUBLIC Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization was required for nonresidents to issue debt securities. On January 1, 2001, this was lifted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior authorization was required for issuing debt securities abroad. On January 1, 2001, this was lifted. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization was required for nonresidents to issue money market securities. On January 1, 2001, th is was l if ted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior authorization was required for issuing debt securities abroad. On January 1, 2001, this was l if ted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. There are controls on investment by nonresidents in air transport. In order to register an aircraft, to obtain a license to operate an air transportation enterprise as a Czech company, or to obtain a Czech air operating certificate, the air carrier must be a juridical person domiciled in the Czech Republic, Czech residents must hold at least 51% of the capital and voting rights, and Czech residents must have an effective influence on the management and fu ll control of the activities of the enterprise. To carry out air taxi transport services, it is only necessary to be a resident of the Czech Republic. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Repub l ic may acquire real estate only in the following cases: (1) by heritage; (2) for the diplomatic representation of a foreign coun- try under the terms of reciprocity; (3) if it is real estate acquired in an unapportioned coownership of a married couple of which only one is a nonresident, or where a nonresi- dent acquires property from a husband, w ife, parents, or grandparents; (4) through the ex- change of domestic real estate owned by the nonresident for other domestic real estate, the normal price of which does not exceed the normal price of the former real estate; (5) if the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned coownership of real estate; (6) if it is a construction bu i lt by a nonresident on his own land; and (7) under the terms explicitly stipulated by several acts on restitution and privatization. Branches of nonres ident corpora- t ions may not purchase real estate. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Resident and nonresident investors are treated equally. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange l im i ts are applied on both on- and off-balance-sheet exposures; they are 20% of the capital for all currencies and 15% for open ko runa positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Effective April 1, 2000, credit unions, insurance companies, and pension funds may place their assets abroad, subject to specific prudential regulations. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 283 Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts August L The value of goods that may be imported or exported without reporting was raised to CZK 350,000 from CZK 200,000. Resident accounts Capital transactions October 10. Most restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were l if ted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April I. Insurance companies and pension funds were allowed to place their assets abroad, subject to specific prudential regulations. Resident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2001 January L Operations on deposit accounts carried out by residents with foreign credit institutions were liberalized. Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. Prior authorization was no longer required for residents and nonresidents to issue debt or money market securities locally or abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Denmark participates in the ERM II and maintains the spot exchange rate between the Danish krone and the euro w i th in margins of 2.25% above or below the central rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Denmark maintains exchange restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 285 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea require a license. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Licenses are required for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of waste and scrap of certain metals. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 DENMARK Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are prohibited, except in the case of acquisitions by (1) persons who were for- merly residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU nationals working in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) non-EU nationals who either are in possession of a valid residence permit or are entitled to stay in Denmark without such a permit for residential or active business purposes. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The Consolidated Act contains prudential regulations covering capital adequacy, l iqu id i ty, and large exposures. These regulations follow the relevant EU directives. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents A 40% limitation on holdings of foreign equity securities by private insurance companies and pension funds is in effect. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies are regulated by the "balance principle," which determines that con- sistency must be ensured between assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The D j ibou ti franc is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1 The official buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar in international markets/There is cover- age of the fu ll issue of Djibouti francs in foreign exchange. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. n.a. n.a. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 DJIBOUTI Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted up to a certain percentage of the value of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are lev- ied by means of the general consumption tax on imports at three rates (8%, 20%, and 33%). Certain commodities, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated m ine ral water, petro- leum products, qat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax of various rates. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 289 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. There are controls on all credit transactions by residents to nonresidents, inc lud ing transac- tions as regards guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities within the limits estab- lished by the banking regulations to comply with the prudential standard on customer risk. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 DJIBOUTI Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a matching requirement with respect to both the amount of the transaction and the intervention currency, and also with respect to maturity and interest rate. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The consumption tax on imports was reduced to three rates (8%, 20%, and 33%) from seven rates. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of July 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. n.a. n.a. Dominica is a member of the CARICOM. As a member of CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies but requires that any individual foreign currency transaction in excess of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. International security restrictions Trade with Iraq is prohibited. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes on ly, Small quantities of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the MOF. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 DOMINICA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of Eastern Caribbean dollar notes and coins outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts These accounts are normally confined to major exporters and may only be credited with foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Yes. No. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency For any single transaction in excess of EC$250,000, approval from the MOF is required. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a commercial bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas All imports from Iraq are prohibited. Imports of specified goods originating elsewhere than OECS countries, Belize, and CARICOM countries require a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of CARICOM (Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. Applicable to pub l ic health and safety goods. There are certain quantitative restrictions on imports of beverages, f lour, and margarine; quotas are allocated to traditional importers based on their historical market shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs DOMINICA 293 Most rates are ad valorem. Effective Ju ly 1, 2001, Dominica applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, reducing the m ax imum ta r i ff on most non-CARICOM goods to 20% from 25%. Lower rates apply to mach inery (zero to 15%) and some essential foods tuffs (10% to 15%), wh i le higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1% customs service charge. State import monopoly Bu lk imports of sugar and rice are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, un less the exporter has a foreign currency account into wh ich the proceeds may be pa id. F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of protected plant and animal species to any destination. Yes. Bananas exported by the Dom in ica Banana Marke t ing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between EC$0.55 and ECS0.60 a pound; if the export price exceeds ECS0.60 a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign currency in amounts up to EC$250,000. Amounts over this l im it require approval by the MOF, which is generally granted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on the payments of fam i ly maintenance and alimony, medical costs, remittances on pensions, and studies abroad. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests app ly to the payment of medical costs. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Ea rn ings of fore ign workers may be rem i t ted after settlement of all taxes or other p u b l ic l i ab i l i t i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 DOMINICA Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no controls on subscriptions and membership fees. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments All outward transfers of capital in excess of EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations All credit operations by residents to nonresidents require MOF approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 295 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Nonresidents are generally required to have an alien landholding license to hold shares in private and public companies and to hold property. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landho ld ing license is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. MOF approval is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are generally not permitted. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments July 1. Dominica applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET, reducing the max imum tariff on most non-CARICOM goods to 20% from 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican peso. In addition to the official exchange rate set by the Central Bank of the Dominican Re- pub l ic (CBDR), the market exchange rate reflects commercial banks' foreign exchange transactions with the public. There is also an extrabank market rate determined by foreign exchange transactions with exchange houses. The CBDR occasionally intervenes in the market via the commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers. The official exchange rate is set by the CBRD at the average of the previous week's commercial bank rate. A commission of 5% is charged on all sales of foreign currency. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through two accounts on which imports (debits) and exports (credits) are recorded. These accounts were established under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the LAIA. All payments must be invoiced in dollars. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements take place under reciprocal credit agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Venezuela. Administration of control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CBDR. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Who le bars of gold are sold to local indus tr ial and handicraft enterprises through the central bank. Such sales must equal 1% of the physical volume of refined gold and silver produced each year, or no more than 2,000 troy ounces annually. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 297 Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Ind iv idua ls may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for num isma t ic purposes. They may also buy gold as needed for indus tr ial or hand ic ra ft purposes from the central bank, ind ica t- ing in their request the purpose for wh ich it is to be used. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the CBDR. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000 or the equ iva len t. Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$ 100 in coins. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Natural or ju r id ical persons may locally ma in ta in savings or t ime deposit accounts in dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer f u ll services. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Domestic currency may be converted to fore ign currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Natural or ju r id ical persons may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Payments for oil are transacted through the CBDR at the official exchange rate by the re- finery REFIDOMSA. All other imports must be transacted through the commercial banks and are only subject to verification of appropriate documentation, except for the industrial free-trade zones. Positive list Th is l ist inc ludes beans, corn, garlic, m i lk, onions, poultry, rice, and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 Negative list DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Imports of l ive an ima ls; seeds; plants; fru i ts; plant and animal products that are unhealthy, decomposing, or infected w i th germs or parasites; and substances ha rm ful or in ju r ious to human, plant, or animal health are prohibited. Licenses w i th quotas Imports of beans, corn, garlic, m i lk, onions, pou l try, rice, and refined sugar requ ire licenses. Other nontariff measures Sugar may be imported only by domestic producers. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Un t il January 1, 2001, tariff rates ranged from zero to 35%. On that date, the new Tariff Reform Law came in to effect, establishing tar iffs of zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. There is also a temporary import system for the entry, free of import duties and taxes, of certain goods that are to be reexported w i th in a max imum of 18 months of being processed, worked, or repaired. In addition, there is a zero rate for imports of inputs, machinery, and equ ipm ent to be used in the textile and agr icu l tural sectors. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Yes. State import monopo ly The state ref inery has exc lus ive rights to import certain petroleum products for resale. Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts F i n a n c i ng requirements Documentation requirements Other Export licenses W i th quotas A 100% requ i rement applies to all traditional exports (i.e., cocoa, sugar, coffee, tobacco, and mineral products) at the official exchange rate. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers with a ma tur i ty of more than 30 days from the date of sh ipment w i thout authorization from the CBDR. Yes. Licenses are required for sugar and textile exports to the Un i ted States. Bananas are subject to quantitative restrictions in the EU, as are coffee and cocoa in the markets of signatories to the international coffee and cocoa agreement. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All inv i s ib le payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documentation requ iremen ts. Inves tmen t-re la ted paymen ts No controls are exercised on the transfer of profits. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. No controls are exercised on the transfer of pensions and family maintenance payments. Yes. Yes. Pr ior approval of the president of the Repub l ic is required for the h i r ing of Haitian workers to harvest sugarcane. Other payments Technical assistance fees must be registered with the CBDR. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 299 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Wh i le most exchange proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the interbank market, certain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls, international credit card transactions, jet fue l, foreign embassies' operations, and receipts from insurance claims) must be surrendered to the CBDR at the official exchange rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities The Law on the Securities Market was promulgated on August 5, 2000, setting out the legal framework governing capital market operations. The local capital market is still emerging; shares and bonds are not yet traded. Only the primary market's own operations are effected, with commercial paper denominated in domestic currency. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. No. By residents to nonresidents No. To residents from nonresidents Prior CBDR approval is required. Financial credits Yes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Banks may grant unsecured loans to a single ind iv idual or legal entity for up to 15% of their capital and reserves, and up to a maximum of 30% when secured with real guarantees, both to residents and nonresidents. External debt may be contracted directly by the central government, subject to congres- sional authorization. New loans by other pub l ic entities require authorization from the president of the Repub l ic for the ir subsequent registration by the Monetary Board. Private external debt must be registered with the CBDR, except for foreign exchange advances on fu tu re traditional exports, wh ich require approval from the CBDR. On March 9, 2000, a requirement came into effect for commercial and full-service banks to request prior CBDR authorization for issuing foreign currency guarantees, other than for trade operations. External short-term f inanc ing by banks authorized to offer f u ll services is l im i ted to 30% of paid-up capital and reserves. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Inves tmen ts must be registered with the CBDR. Inves tment in the f o l l ow i ng sectors is pro- h ib i ted: (1) disposal of toxic waste and of dangerous or radioactive substances not produced in the country; (2) activities that affect pub l ic health and the env i ronmen t; and (3) produc- tion of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls Yes. Yes. Banks authorized to offer fu ll services may obtain financing abroad of up to one year, limited to 30% of their paid-up capital and reserves. Banks authorized to offer fu ll services may grant loans in dollars to the sectors exporting goods and services to finance activities specific to their functions and to the importing sectors to cover payments abroad for the acquisition of goods and services. Foreign currency deposits taken by commercial and full-service banks are subject to a 10% reserve requirement valued at the official exchange rate. Banks may grant unsecured loans to a single ind iv idual or legal entity for up to 15% of their capital and reserves, and up to a max imum of 30% when secured with real guarantees, both to residents and nonresidents. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Standards have been established whereby financial system entities may continuously measure, assess, and control their own exposure to exchange risk. Currently, regulations are being drafted to l im it such exposure. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Controls on credit operations August 5. The Law on the Securities Market was promulgated, setting out the legal framework governing capital market operations. March 9. A requirement came into effect for commercial and full-service banks to re- quest prior CBDR authorization for issuing foreign currency guarantees, other than for trade operations. Imports and import payments January I. A new tariff reform law came into effect. The new tariffs are zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. The new law also established a maximum customs tax of 20%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31, 1970. Currency Exchange Arrangement Effective March 13, 2000, a f u ll dollarization scheme was established. A l though the cur- rency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran sucre, the dollarization legislation makes the do l lar the legal tender and provides for a limited issue of domestic coins w i th small va lue to remain in circulation to facilitate small transactions and requires that they be f u l ly backed at all times by dollars. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The dollarization legislation provides for the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) to exchange legal tender on demand sucres at a rate of S/. 25,000 per $1. The CBE has ceased the creation of sucre- denominated liabilities, and it stands ready to redeem sucre coins and banknotes for do l lars on demand. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options, and transactions in other financial derivative instruments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Exchange proceeds from all countries, except for LAIA members, must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the cur- rency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. Controls on the use of domestic cur- rency Use of foreign exchange among resi- dents n.a. n.a. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements There are arrangements w i th Cuba and Hungary; balances are settled every four months. Payments between Ecuador and the other LAIA countries may be made w i t h in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control Pub l ic sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the CBE. Exports must be registered with the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exportation, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives may be carried out through the free market or through the CBE. Private sector foreign ex- change transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Central Bank Board (CBB). 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 ECUADOR In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Arrears are maintained w i th respect to pub l ic and pub l ic ly guaranteed debt-service payments to off ic ial and private creditors. Commercial banks under the control of the Deposit Insurance Agency (AGO) ma in ta in external payments arrears on trade and interbank credit lines. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list No. Prior import licenses are required for agricultural, medical, and psychotropic imports. In addition, Petroecuador (the state oil company) may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equ ipment du r ing emergencies. Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, vehicle parts and pieces, and used clothes are pro- h ib i ted primarily to protect the environment and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also prohibited. Certain imports require pr ior authorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and na- tional security reasons. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Tariff rates for most goods are zero, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 40%. U n t il February 28, 2001, when the additional tariffs were eliminated, goods imported into Ecuador were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 303 subject to additional tariffs ranging from 2% to 10%. Automobiles are subject to a 40% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. For certain agr icu l tural goods, ta r i f fs are imposed on those w i th prices below a certain lower benchmark, and rebates are granted on goods w i th prices above an upper benchmark. On May 31, 2000, import tariff rates were reduced to 50% on electric appliances, parts, and accessories; agr icu l tural mach inery; and second-hand engines. Before conc lud ing the negotiations for accession to the WTO, Ecuador replaced its system of price bans for 130 agricultural products with the one used by the Commun i ty of Andean Nations. No timetable for the e l im ina t ion of this system has been agreed to by the WTO. Effective January 1, 2000, the VAT rate for all private sector imports was increased to 12% from 10%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities. However, export- ers may deduct up to 15% from the ir surrender requ irement to cover the actual cost of con- sular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not apply to ex- ports effected under authorized barter transactions or to exports to coun tr ies w i th wh i ch Ecuador has bilateral payment agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide o f f ic ial documen ta t ion from the recipient country es tab l ish ing the app l icab le fo rms of pay- ment. Exporters of ma r ine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. va lue of the ir sh ipmen ts to cover the actual cost of leasing fore ign ships. M i n im um reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and sem if in ished prod- ucts of cocoa to he lp ensure that exchange proceeds are f u l ly surrendered. Payment of for- eign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered w i t h in 30 days of the date of shipment. In add i t ion, exporters may deduct from the ir surrender requ iremen ts the cost of Kraft paper and starch or inpu ts and raw materials imported under the "Industrial Deposits Temporary Adm iss ion" regime when exporters requ i re cardboard boxes for pack ing that are b u i lt w i th k ra ft paper and starch. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Barter transactions requ i re the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade, Industrialization, and Fisheries, and must be registered with the CBE. Exports do not requ i re licenses, but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, fish, and sem i f in ished cocoa produc ts are subject to m i n im um reference prices. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of $0.5 a barrel. A fee of $1.02 a barrel is applied to crude oil exported through the p ipe l ine. Effec t ive March 10, 2000, th is fee was changed; it is now paid according to the viscosity of the crude oil and the distance it is transported ( in kilometers). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from inv is ib les must be sold in the free market. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 ECUADOR Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these ins t rumen ts. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or o f f ic ial en t i t ies, whe ther or not they invo lve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to pr ior approval from the CBB. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the CBB, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the CBB considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For pub l ic sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered w i th the CBE w i th in 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equ iva lent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. The reserve requ irement for dollar-denominated accounts was 4%, wh i le that for sucre- denominated accounts was 19%. Effec t ive January 27, 2000, the reserve requ iremen ts were un i f ied at 9%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 305 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement March 13. A fu ll dollarization scheme was implemented, making the dollar legal tender. Imports and import payments January 1. The VAT on private sector imports was increased to 12% from 10%. March 31. The exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category exchange arrangement, no separate legal tender from the category independently floating. Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions May 31. Import tariff rates were reduced to 50% on electric appliances, parts, and accessories; agricultural machinery; and second-hand engines. March 10. The fee on crude oil exports was changed; it is now paid according to the viscosity of the crude oil and the distance it is transported. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 27. The reserve requirements for dollar-denominated and sucre-denominated accounts were un i f ied at 9%. Imports and import payments February 28. The additional tariffs of 2% to 10% were eliminated. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le C lass if icat ion Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Arab Republic of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. In addition to the market exchange rate, there is a special rate of LE 1.30 per US$1 that is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payment agreement with Sudan, and a rate of LE 0.3913 per $1 that is used for the liquidation of m in imal balances related to terminated bilateral payment agreements. Un t il January 30, 2001, the Egyptian pound was pegged to the dollar. On that date, al- though the peg to the dollar remained, a band of 1% was introduced. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) announces the central rate, and all foreign exchange trades by banks and foreign exchange bureaus must take place w i th in a ±1% range around this central rate. The central rate may be adjusted in light of market conditions. Accordingly, the exchange rate system of Egypt has been reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizon- tal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in a free (kerb) market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) on the ir own account. These transactions may be conducted either in cash or through their accounts maintained with authorized banks in Egypt. However, nonbank authorized dealers are not permitted to deal in transfers into or out of the country. Foreign exchange dealers must sell all working-day foreign currency surpluses in excess of the ir authorized operating balances to commercial banks. The spread between the CBE buy ing and selling rates for foreign exchange is about 0.50%. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transac- tions for their own account. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements For countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force, certain settlements are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the CBE. The balances of these accounts are m in ima l. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements w i th Sudan are made in accordance with the terms of the bilateral agreement. Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements n.a. n.a. Operative There is an agreement with Sudan. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 307 Inoperative There is an agreement w i th Russia to settle debts between Egypt and the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU. Regional arrangements Egypt is a member of the COMES A. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions w i th in the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payment arrears There are l im i ted technical payment arrears w i th certain non-Paris C lub creditors. Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or customers' accounts, in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Travelers may take out up to LE 1,000. Persons a r r iv ing in Egypt may import up to LE 1,000. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Balances may be converted through the foreign exchange market. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited w i th transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other s im i lar ac- counts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other s im i lar accounts, w i thd rawa ls in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 EGYPT Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Marg ins for LCs are 100 percent. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Most items may be imported free ly. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Products are classified in to seven groups for customs purposes, w i th tar iff rates rang ing from 5% to 50% (w i th several exceptions). Surcharges at rates of 2% and 3% apply to most imports. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held inde f in i te ly abroad or in local free accounts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts There are no controls under the Foreign Exchange Law and Regu la t ions on the i s su ing of securities in the coun try by nonresidents. Trading in securities denom ina ted in fore ign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 309 currencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange market may be used for transferring proceeds associated w i th the sale of both Egyptian securities and fore ign securities. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval of the Capital Market Authority is required for issuing bonds. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Derivatives do not exist in the Egyptian market. No controls are applied if the maturity of the commercial credits is one year or less and if these credits are received by the private sector. Ministries, governmental administrations, pub l ic authorities, and pub l ic sector companies are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than one year. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or projects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. There are no general controls, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. No. Yes. Yes. No. Deposits in foreign currencies held by either nationals or foreign nationals are subject to a 10% requirement (the interest-free reserve ratio requirement of deposits in Egyptian pounds is 15%), which must be deposited with the CBE at LIBOR. Liquid asset requirements The requirement for assets in foreign currencies is 25%, and 20% for assets in Egyptian pounds. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits All banks operating in Egypt (except branches of foreign banks) are prohibited from depos- i t ing or having investment securities worth more than 40% of their capital base or 10% of their total investment abroad, whichever is lower, with a foreign correspondent bank. According to the Banking Law, all banks operating in Egypt are prohibited from own ing shares exceeding 40% of issued capital in joint-stock companies, locally or abroad. In addi- tion, the face value of the shares owned by the bank in these companies may not exceed the va lue of the bank's issued capital and reserves. Shareholdings by residents or nonresidents in any bank in Egypt that exceed 10% of the bank's capital require approval from the CBE Board of Directors. The limits are (1) for each currency (local or foreign), 10% of Tier I and Tier II capital; (2) for total long or short positions, 20% of Tier I and Tier II capital; and (3) total foreign assets to total foreign liabilities, or vice versa, not to exceed 105%. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 EGYPT On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad L im i ts (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January 30. A band of 1% around the central rate was introduced. The exchange rate system of Egypt was reclassifled to the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 6, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran colon. Effective January 1, 2001, the dollar is also legal tender and circulates freely at a fixed rate of C8.75 per $1. S i lver and gold coins in denom ina t ions of C150 and (£2,500, respectively, are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Conventional pegged arrangement U n t il December 31, 2000, the Central Reserve Bank (CRB) published the daily exchange rates that were applied to its transactions with the public sector, and the calculation of tax obligations. These exchange rates were the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses on the previous working day. Effective January 1, 2001, the CRB stopped pub l i sh ing these rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. El Salvador is a member of the CACM. All private sector foreign exchange transactions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centro de Tr£mites de Exportaci6n issues certificates of origin and hea l th when fore ign importers requ ire them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. No. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 EL SALVADOR Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks and exchange houses or used to make payments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are not restricted, but the commercial banks are required to subm it periodic re- ports to the CRB on the use of such accounts. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, propane and butane gas, cloth and jute sacks, sugar, and molasses. Most import tariffs range up to 10%, although some products are subject to higher tariffs, such as automobiles, 25-30%; alcoholic beverages, 30%; and textiles and luxu ry goods, 20%. There are no tariffs on capital goods and selected inputs. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive duty drawbacks on imported raw materials equ iva lent to 6% of f.o.b. value of exports. Tariffs on imports of intermediate goods from outside the Central American region are 5-10%, and those on consumption goods are 15%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. All exports must be registered, w i th the exception of exports amoun t ing to less than $5,000, unless the product specifications call for such certification. Export permits, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 313 issued by the Ministry of Economy, are required for diesel fue l, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be registered with the Ministry of the Economy for statistical purposes. Certain m i n i- mum capital requirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those hav ing foreign resident shareholders. No. No. No. External borrowing by financial institutions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10%. The CRB remunerates commercial banks' l i q u i d i ty reserves based on the ove rn ight rate (C i t ibank) p lus 0.25%. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks is 10% of capital and reserves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 EL SALVADOR Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January 1. The CRB stopped publishing the daily exchange rates. The Monetary Integ- ration Law came into effect. This law fixed the exchange rate of the co!6n to the dollar at C8.75. It also made the dollar legal tender; it now circulates freely and all payments may be made in either dollars or colones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5% is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except for transfers in respect of central and local govern- ment operations, payments for imports covered by a du ly issued license and domiciled w i th a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of insurance premiums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Equatorial Gu in ea is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in francs through foreign accounts. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. On April 29, 2000, the CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (DNCC) of the MOF. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry. They must have the ap- proval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly m ined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, wh ich authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the MOF; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of th is l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at the ir disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Yes. No. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in foreign currency include accounts in dollars. Accounts in euros are treated iden t ica l ly to accounts in domestic currency. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Approval required Approval is required, except for accounts in euros. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 317 Domestic currency accounts Because the BEAC suspended the repurchase of its banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the terr i- tories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Certified bank documents are required. M in imum financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions of which the value exceeds CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of f inal destination. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No import licenses are required, except for imports of gold. Negative list Certain goods are prohibited for security, health, or safety reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Equatorial Guinea applies the common duty rates of the UDEAC on imports from non- members (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for in- termediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxury goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made w i t h in 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to the approval of the MOF. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Except in the case of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, pay- ments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the DNCC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applied to the payment of freight and insurance costs. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. The transfer of rental income from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to 50% of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applied to the payment of profit and dividends. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, up to CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, up to CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i th in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The l im it is determined as a function of the salary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is l im i ted to the ceilings for tourist and business travel. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 319 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date. Proceeds earned in countries outside the franc zone must be surrendered w i th in a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. EQUATORIAL GUINEA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Yes. Yes. Yes. A bona fide test is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 29. The CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Eritrea is the Eritrean nakfa. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Un t il Ju ly 1, 2000, when it was pegged to the dollar, the exchange rate of the nakfa was determined freely in the foreign exchange market. The nakfa was first pegged at ERN 9 per $1 and subsequently devalued to ERN 10.0 per $1. Thus, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category inde- pendently floating. On November 1, 2000, the foreign exchange bureau exchange rate and the commercial bank exchange rate were unified. The Bank of Eritrea (BE) prescribes a commission of 0.25% for purchases of foreign ex- change and 0.75% for sales of foreign exchange, except for banknote transactions. Au thor- ized dealers are permitted, but not required, to levy a service charge of up to 0.25% for buying and 0.75% for selling on their own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No. n.a. n.a. Eritrea is a member of the COMESA. A clearing arrangement exists between the members of the COMESA. The BE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers and issues dealers' licenses. It may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents; the Ministry of Trade and Industry regulates foreign investments. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. No. No. Authorization from the M in is try of Energy and Mines is required for the ownersh ip or pos- session of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewe lry w i thout restrictions. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 ERITREA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency holdings upon entry or departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. The opening of these accounts is restricted to resident banks. Resident banks may not open accounts abroad unless specifically authorized by the BE. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are available only to members of the diplomatic commun i ty; welfare or- ganizations; nongovernmental organizations and the ir personnel; and jo int ventures and other business firms that invest their capital, who l ly or partially, in foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Most imports financed with official foreign exchange are effected under LCs or on a cash-against-documents basis. Suppliers' credits must be registered with the BE. Advance import deposits These are required only for LC type of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list All commodities may be imported freely, w i th some exceptions. Yes. Open general licenses All importers must have a va l id trade license issued by the Na t ional Licensing Office. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 2% is collected on imports that do not require official foreign exchange and are not aid-funded (franco va lu ta imports). State import monopoly The imports of m i l i tary materials, weapons, armaments, and the like are conducted by the state. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 323 Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of shipment; where justified, this deadline may be extended by another 90 days. No. Exports may be made under LCs on an advance-payment basis or on a consignment basis. All exports require documentation. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the Ministry of Marine Resources. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Effective January 1, 2000, all restrictions on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers were abolished. Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities with the approval of the BE. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 ERITREA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw the ir correspondent accounts abroad with the approval of the BE. Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and whole- sale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; th is latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved investments and the ir subsequent expansion are exempted from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. For investments certified under the Investment Proclamation, foreign investors may freely remit proceeds received from the liquidation of investment and/or expansion, and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks may maintain correspondent accounts with the ir counterparts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement July 1. The Eritrean nakfa was pegged to the dollar. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January 1. All restrictions on payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers were abolished. November 1. The foreign exchange bureau rate and the commercial bank rate were un i f ied. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Augu st 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Es ton ia is the Es ton ian kroon. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Currency board arrangement The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the deu tsche mark at the rate of EEK 8 per DM 1. This imp l ies an imp l ic it peg to the euro at the rate of EEK 15.6466 p e r € l. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) p rov ides commerc ial banks w i th the possibility of buy ing or se l l ing foreign exchange to adjust their kroon l iqu id i ty. All transactions are initiated by commer- cial banks. For licensed credit institutions, the BOE is obliged to exchange euros and the other EU currencies, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars for Estonian krooni and vice versa w i thout l im i t s. There is no spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates of the Estonian kroon against the euro or the other EU currenc ies. Transactions in conver t ib le cu r renc ies are f ree ly effected by commerc ial banks, w h i ch may free ly quote the ir own exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Estonia has bilateral agreements w i th Armen ia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, the Ky rgyz Repub l ic, Latvia, L i thuan ia, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Kroon balances held by the central banks of these countries in their correspondent accounts are fu l ly convertible without delay. No swing credits or overdraft facilities are provided by these arrangements. Commercial banks in Estonia are free to open the ir own correspondent accounts w i th comme rc ial banks in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other coun t r ies of the FSU. Adm in i s tra t ion of control The BOE issues and enforces fo re ign exchange regulations. The MOF con tro ls and mon i to rs impor ts and exports, and licenses gold t rad ing. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Some ex ternal debt issues w i th Russ ia and cer ta in o ther coun tr ies of the FSU are not yet settled. A ll ex te rnal debt w i th Russ ia is o f f i c i a l. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade I n t e r n a t i o n al trade in gold is subject to l i c e n s i ng r equ i r em en ts adm in i s te red by the MOF. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 ESTONIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Open general licenses are required for the following goods: alcohol; food; fuel and energy; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; precious metals and stones, radioactive materials and devices; tobacco; and weapons. Licenses or special permits are required to import the fo l low ing goods: explosives; weap- ons; radio broadcast equipment; plants; seeds; rare species of animals; goods subject to veterinary, food, and phytosanitary control; plant preservatives and fertilizers; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; audiovisual recording and production equipment; lottery tickets; strategic goods; radioactive materials; motor vehicles; products that decrease the ozone layer; precious metals, stones, and articles containing these prod- ucts; and dangerous and other waste products. Other nontariff measures Imports of certain dangerous chemicals are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise duties are levied on tobacco, alcohol, motor vehicles, fuel, and packaging materials. Imports are also subject to a state duty and a VAT of 18%, which is also levied on domesti- cally produced goods. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the law on preferential customs duties came into force. Accord- ing to the law, foodstuffs originating from countries with which Estonia has not concluded a free trade agreement are subject to customs duties. Free trade agreements have been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 327 concluded with the EFTA, the EU, the Czech Republic, the Faroe Islands, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Ukraine. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas The export of certain dangerous chemicals is prohibited. Licenses or special perm i ts are required for alcohol; items of cu l tural value; precious met- als, precious stones, and articles containing these products; medicinal products; weapons; explosives; rare species of plants and an ima ls and hun t ing trophies; goods subject to ve ter i- nary, food, and phytosanitary control; narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances; strategic goods; radioactive substances; and dangerous and other waste products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities No. No. Yes. No. No. By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial guarantees to nonresident credit ins t i tu t ions are subject to reserve requ i remen ts. Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment On Ju ly 1, 2000, the Foreign Investment Act was revoked. It had allowed the government to specify areas of activity in which the establishment of enterprises with foreign capital or participation of foreign investors was prohibited or required a license under the terms of the Act. Under the Security Service Act, the government may restrict participation of fore ign capital in the assets of a security service enterprise. At present, foreign capital in the aviation and mar i t ime transport sectors may not exceed 49%. This control w i ll be abolished upon accession to the EU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 ESTONIA Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies This is subject to approval by the county governor concerned. Acquisition of real estate is prohibited in the fo l low ing areas: the islands, except for the four largest islands; and certain local municipalities bordering Russia. By residents to nonresidents There is a control on the giving of real estate as a gift. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Net l iab i l i t ies to foreign credit institutions are subject to a reserve requirement, but l i ab i l i- ties to domestic credit institutions are not. Financial guarantees provided by commercial banks to other financial institutions and nonresident credit institutions are subject to the mandatory reserve requirement. Yes. Yes. Investment funds are restricted from investing their assets in nongovernmental securities of certain countries. No controls are applied to the EU or the EEA countries. In respect to other countries, investment is permitted only in accordance with the respective list made by the MOF. Investments in foreign real estate may not exceed 25% of total assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2000 January 1. The law on preferential customs duties came into force. It stipulates that foodstuffs originating from countries w i th which Estonia has not concluded a free trade agreement are subject to customs duties. Controls on direct investment July 1. The Foreign Investment Act was revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of E th iop ia is the Ethiopian b irr. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The official exchange rate of the b irr against the dollar is the marginal rate (i.e., the lowest successful bid) determined in weekly auctions for announced quantities of foreign ex- change, as determined by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). An in terbank market for trading domestic and foreign exchange funds is operational. A wholesale fore ign exchange market replaced the retail auction. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to engage in all approved spot/cash external current account transactions. Authorized banks must observe a prescribed commission of 1.5% on selling, wh ich ac- crues to the NBE. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign currencies among themselves. Ethiopia is a member of the COMESA. Payments may be made w i t h in the framework of COMESA. The NBE has transferred to commercial banks the responsibility for de te rm in ing comp l i- ance of buyers and sellers of foreign exchange with import and export licensing require- ments and foreign exchange regulations. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears n.a. No. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 ETHIOPIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownership of personal jewe lry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the Minis- try of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permit- ted. Private companies may directly export newly worked gold, silver, and jewe lry. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may take out Br 100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign ex- change. Reconversion of birr to foreign exchange of up to $150 may be made without the presentation of any documentary evidence; for amounts exceeding $150, the presentation of authenticated documentary evidence is required, indicating that the equivalent amount of foreign exchange was lawfully converted into local currency. On imports Domestic currency Travelers may bring in Br 100 in currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks may open foreign exchange retention accounts for eligible exporters of goods and recipients of inward remittances without prior approval from the NBE. Held domestically Approval required Exporters of services may open foreign exchange retention accounts w i th NBE approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Three types of nonresident accounts may be opened: foreign currency accounts, nonresi- dent transferable b irr accounts, and nonresident nontransferable b irr accounts. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign currency. The balances in the first two accounts may be transferred freely abroad or used for international payment purposes, wh i le the balance in the nonresident nontransferable birr account is to be used ma in ly for local ex- penses. Transfer of funds from foreign currency accounts and nonresident transferable birr accounts to nonresident nontransferable birr accounts do not require NBE approval. Diplomatic bodies, members of international organizations, and foreign investors may open all three types of foreign exchange accounts. Other nonresidents may open only nonresident nontransferable b irr accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval is required for the conversion of the balances on nonresident, nontransferable birr accounts into foreign currency accounts. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 331 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods on the negative list (e.g., used clothing) are ine l ig ib le for foreign ex- change auctions. Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are allowed only for individuals or enter- prises engaged in export ac t iv i t ies and/or who generate foreign exchange. From February 11, 2000, an importer had to present a deposit slip in birr covering the entire va lue of the imports before lodging an import application. This measure was not applicable to imports of fertilizers, fue l, pharmaceuticals, pub l ic transport vehicles, airplanes, ships, and boats, or to inves tment goods exempted from customs duties by the E th iop ian Invest- ment Authority (EIA). On December 31, 2000, this requirement was eliminated. F inal invoices that separately show f.o.b. cost and fre ight charges and nonnegotiable b i l ls of lading are required. Domiciliation requirements Importers are required to insure their goods with local insurance companies. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Yes. n .r. Yes. Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applica- t ions for exchange licenses must be accompanied by information on costs and payment terms and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged w i th the E th iop ian Insurance Corporation. Insurance may be arranged with any legally registered insurance company (private insurance companies included), not necessarily with just the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from the import licensing requirement. Negative list The list includes used clothing and items restricted for reasons of health and security. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Open general licenses Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from this requirement. Import taxes and/or tariffs The item-weighted average tariff rate is 19% and the trade-weighted average 14.9%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters may retain 10% of the ir export proceeds in foreign exchange for an ind e f in i te period. The r em a in ing balance may be retained for a period of 28 days, after wh ich it mu st be converted into local currency by the customer's bank using the NBE 's marg inal rate of the week in the wholesale auction. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters must prove to the NBE that they have repatriated 100% of p rev ious exports before be ing allowed to export again. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses n.r. An export credit guarantee scheme is operational. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 Without quotas Export taxes ETHIOPIA All exports are processed by commercial banks, with the exception of coffee exports. The exportation of coffee is subject to a customs tax of 6.5% of the exported value. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Approval is given by the commercial banks, n.r. Verification of documentary evidence is required for unloading, storage, commission, and administrative expenses. After paying local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Prior approval for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments is required ma in ly for government transactions made through the MOF. Indicative limits/bona fide test These are subject to an assessment based on the NBE's criteria. Verification of contrac- tual agreement between parties is required by the NBE. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no l im i ts for persons traveling abroad for business purposes. Persons t rave l ing for holiday purposes may purchase up to $1,200 directly from foreign exchange bureaus operated by commercial banks. For government travel, the allowance amounts vary by country and foreign currency, based on the cost of living. Yes. Yes. There are no limits on costs for medical treatment and studies abroad. Government stu- dents are granted foreign exchange up to the requirement of their fu tu re employer. Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health is required for medical payments. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign contractual employees of the government may take out foreign exchange, not ex- ceeding their net earnings dur ing the terms of service and upon final departure. However, the value of free accommodations, gratuities, accumulated leave pay, and s im i lar benefits may not be included for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out foreign exchange on final departure, not exceeding their net earnings. Foreign employees of embassies, legations, consulates, and international organizations whose salaries are f u l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside E th iop ia may take out and/or transfer their net earnings, not exceeding the balance in the ir nonresident foreign currency account, nonresident transferable b irr account, and/or nontransferable b i rr ac- counts. Yes. Documentation is required from the overseas institute and approval must be given by com- mercial banks for subscription and membership fees. NBE verification of contractual agreements between the parties is required for the transfer of legal fees, and applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 333 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Ten percent of proceeds may be retained indef in i te ly. The rema in ing balance may be retained for a period of 28 days only. These funds may be used for payments such as imports of goods and services, export promotion, training and education, credit repayment, and other payments approved by the NBE. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There is no market in these instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks need prior approval from the NBE to borrow funds abroad, but do not need prior approval for overdrawing their accounts with foreign correspondents or accepting deposits. Other residents need to obtain the NBE's prior approval, and the credits should be used for export-generating investments. The equity component of the debt/equity ratio of the loan should not be less than 40%, except when the NBE issues a waiver. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks may issue guarantees on behalf of foreign banks to resident companies. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Foreign investors may hold up to 100% of the shares in any venture, except in the bank ing, insurance, and transport sectors, and may trade above a certain limit. Investment in telecommunications and defense industries is allowed in partnership w i th the government. Investments in rail transport service, postal service (except courier service), the generation and supply of electricity above an installed capacity of 25 megawatts, as we ll as transmission and supply of electric energy through the Integrated National Gr id System are reserved for the government. All investments must be approved and certified by the El A. Investments are allowed in areas such as agriculture, livestock and crop produc- tion, manufacturing, m in ing, construction, real estate, machinery leasing, social services, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 ETHIOPIA Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment education, health, engineering services, technology-intensive industries, pharmaceutical and fer t i l izer production, and hotels and tourism. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for ma jor extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also e l ig ib le for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. The EIA may decide on additional or new incentives when it deems th is necessary. Au tho r iza t ion by the EIA is required for repatriation of capital. Registration of capital in f lows w i th the EIA establishes the evidence of inf lows required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding l iqu ida t ion and on payment of all taxes and other l iab i l i t ies. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign investors may transfer their capital w i thout l im i ta t ions upon f inal departure from Ethiopia. All foreign investors may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents On ly Ethiopian passport holders may purchase real estate in Ethiopia. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Regulations on f inanc ial credits apply. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings These transactions are not allowed. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks may not borrow from, or enter into a guarantee agreement with, banks abroad unless authorized by the NBE. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may ma in ta in nostro accounts w i th their correspondents. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by nonres iden ts All deposit accounts in foreign exchange take the form of demand deposits on wh ich no interest is paid. Interest rate controls All nonresident accounts take the form of demand deposits on which no interest is paid. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The overall foreign currency position of each bank should not exceed 15% of its capital at the close of business on each Friday. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities n . r. n .r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws ETHIOPIA 335 Residents are not allowed to invest in foreign securities. Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments February 11. Before lodging an import application, an importer was required to present a deposit s l ip in b irr covering the entire value of the imports. December 31. The requ irement that an importer present a deposit s l ip in b irr covering the entire value of the imports was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4, 1972. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Fiji is the Fiji dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade The external va lue of the F i ji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the euro, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the F i ji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of F i ji (RBF) on the basis of quotations for the U.S. do l lar and other currencies included in the basket. No. No. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exports and n ine months for imports, up to a current ratio of 50% of their capital. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts A l though no specific requirements exist, settlements must be made in conver t ib le currencies acceptable to both countries. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange control is administered by the RBF acting as an agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and trans- fers up to specified limits. Effective January 1, 2001, documentary evidence is required for amounts above F$l,000. All capital transfers and emigration transfers require RBF approval. n.a. n.a. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins but not gold bu l l ion. The exportation of gold coins, except coins and collectors' pieces for num isma t ic purposes, requires specific permission from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license from the MOF; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bu l l ion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to a 10% VAT. Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but subject to a 10% VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewe lry 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency FIJI 337 are free of export duty but require licenses if their va lue exceeds F$ 1,000. Exports of gold bu l l ion are subject to an export duty of 3%. On January 1, 2001, exports were allowed of up to F$500 a t r ip for travel-related purposes only. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the t ime of arr iva l. Local travelers are allowed up to a F$5,000 cash equ iva lent in foreign currency ( in c lu s ive of a m a x im um of FS500 in local currency) for each overseas t r ip. Travelers may freely bring in F i ji banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration off ic ia ls on arr iva l. Travelers may freely b r ing in foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to cus- toms or imm igra t ion off ic ia ls on arrival in order to export the unused balance on depar ture. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Applicable to resident ind iv idu a ls and any business entity registered and operating in F i j i. Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is requ i red. F i ji Dollar Resident (FDR) accounts may be ma in ta ined by resident ind iv idu a ls and any business en t i ty registered and operating in F i j i. Commercial banks may open these accounts w i thout RBF approval. Ex- ternal Fiji dollar and foreign currency accounts are maintained by nonresident ind iv idua ls and businesses. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. For resident ind iv idua ls and businesses, RBF approval is required. Effective January 1, 2000, commercial banks are authorized to approve local deposits up to the amount of F$ 1,000 per transaction. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited freely w i th the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, or with payments from other external accounts. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, commercial banks were allowed to open foreign currency accounts for regional and international organizations. Approval required No. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited freely w i th the account holders' salaries (net of tax); w i th interest payable on the account; w i th payments from other external accounts; w i th the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder; and w i th F i ji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji, or acquired by debit to an external ac- count, or acquired through the sale of foreign currency in the country du r ing a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for wh ich either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of F i j i, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in F i j i, and purchases of foreign exchange. Effective September 4, 2000, authorized banks may a l low proceeds of sales of F i ji assets to be credited to domestic currency accounts up to F$50,000 a sale, and other unspec i f ied funds may be deposited up to F$ 1,000 a mon th. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 FIJI Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports of up to F$500,000 an appli- cation, if such payments are required by the supplier. Documentary evidence is needed for remittances above F$ 1,000. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an OGL. Yes. Yes. Imports of poultry and poultry products and lubrication oils from any source requ i re a spe- c if ic import license. The Ministry of Commerce, Business Development, and Investment (MCBDI) is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold and timber. Import licenses and other nontariff measures for gold are issued by the MOF; for timber, they are issued by the M in is try of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national cooperative societies under a jo int arrangement w i th six other Pacific Island countries. The import license for cyclonic bu i ld ing materials is jo in t ly issued by the Department of Fair Trading and Consumer Affairs and the MOF. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for security, health, or pub l ic policy reasons. Import licenses for frozen chicken from the United States are issued on a quota basis. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expiration date requirements. All agricultural and forestry products are subject to quarantine clearance. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Import tariffs are zero, 3%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 27%. A few items attract 15% and 20% import tariffs. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports w i th in six months of the date of sh ipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Customs is delegated to process and approve all export of goods with no monetary return. The export retention l im it is 40%. Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks may approve the offset of earnings from foreign exchange for import payments and other payables of up to F$500,000 an invoice on import payments (increased from F$ 100,000) or F$50,000 an invoice (increased from F$ 10,000) for other payables. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export licenses are issued by the customs department and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain types of lumber, certain animals, and a few other items. The MCBDI is responsible for issuing export licenses for trochus shells, petroleum, and petroleum products. Irrespec- t ive of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 339 Export taxes permit for the commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. va lue of more than F$ 1,000; th is permit is required for exchange control purposes. A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar and, un t il September 12, 2000, at wh ich t ime it was suspended for six months, on exports of gold and silver. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most payments have been f u l ly delegated to authorized banks up to a certain l im i t. Effec- tive January 1, 2001, documentary evidence is required for amounts above F$ 1,000. Insur- ance transfers are subject to the approval of the Insurance Un it of the RBF and are then delegated to commercial banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits Payment of interest is allowed, provided pr ior approval for the loan was granted by the RBF, if the loan is in excess of F$500,000. Authorized banks were allowed to make payments of up to F$100,000 an application for prof it remittances w i thout prior approval of the RBF. Effective January 1, 2001, the repa- tr ia t ion of profits is l im i ted to F$5 m i l l ion a year (previously F$l m i l l ion a year). Dividend profit remittances are limited to three years' retained earnings annually, if not previously remitted (increased from one year's retained earnings). Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits For payment of medical costs, no approval is requ ired, provided that payment is made directly to the ins t i tu t ion. Effective January 1, 2001, commercial banks are allowed to make payments for medical costs of up to F$50,000; these payments are to be made directly to the ins t i tu t ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks may allow wages paid in foreign currency to foreign crew members of up to F$5,000 of the amount due a beneficiary (increased from F$ 1,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks may allow a mon th ly payment l im it of up to F$ 10,000 a card holder (increased from F$7,500 a card holder), and up to F$500 cash drawing a month. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Quantitative limits Effec t ive January 1, 2001, authorized banks may approve the fo l low ing payments: payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities (up to F$50,000 of the amount due, increased from F$ 10,000); and refunds on cancelled hotel bookings (up to F$ 10,000 of the amount due, increased from F$5,000 an application). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 FIJI Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Residents are requ i red to sell all the ir fore ign currency receipts to an authorized dealer w i t h in one mon th of t h e ir re tu rn. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Capital Transactions All capital transfers requ i re RBF approva l. E f fec t ive January 1, 2000, the au tho r i ty to au thor ize inves tmen ts of nonres iden ts for amoun ts up to F$ 100,000 was delegated to the f o l l ow i ng in s t i tu t ion s: ( 1) the South Pac if ic Stock Exchange for inves tmen ts in l is ted com- panies; and (2) commercial banks for investments in Fiji dollar-denominated deposits. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, th is amount was increased to F$500,000. Some of the f u n d i ng for these investments should be from abroad or from earnings in F i j i. Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Effec t ive January 1, 2000, companies were allowed to invest up to F$l m i l l i on a company and the overa ll c e i l i ng was raised to F$30 m i l l i o n. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, compan ies are allowed to invest up to F$500,000 a year. These investments are restricted to the estab- l i s hm e nt of subs id ia ry offices and a m a x im um of F$ 10,000 a year in equ i ty purchases. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are controls on all transactions in bonds or other debt securities. On money market instruments There are controls on all transactions in money market instruments. On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies There are con tro ls on all transactions in co l lec t ive inves tment securities. Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations There are con tro ls on all de r iva t ives transactions. Residents must obtain prior permission from the RBF to borrow amounts over F$ 100,000 in fo re ign cu r rency abroad. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, th is l im it was increased to F$500,000. Effec t ive September 4, 2000, authorized banks may release up to F$50,000 of the amount due for scheduled fore ign currency loan repayments. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, nonresident-controlled business entities are restricted to F$5 m i l l i on a new borrow- ing or guarantee (increased from F$l m i l l i o n ), and non res ident i n d i v i d u a ls are restricted to F$200,000 a new borrowing (increased from F$ 100,000). Prior RBF permission is required for any up - f ront fees. Commerc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 341 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The l im it on bank guarantees is f u l ly delegated to commercial banks. Effective January 1, 2001, nonresident-controlled business entities are restricted to F$5 m i l l i on a new guarantee (increased from F$l m i l l ion ). To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Effec t ive January 1, 2000, (1) nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may invest up to F$5.5 m i l l i on in 2001 (F$70 m i l l ion in 2000); (2) the l im it on overseas investment for ind iv idua ls and families is F$10,000 a taxpayer for 2001 (F$20,000 for 2000), up to an overall ce i l ing of F$10 m i l l i o n; and (3) the l im it on expend i ture to set up sales offices or subsidies abroad by local companies is F$50,000 for 2001 (F$l m i l l ion in 2000). Foreign inves tment in F i ji is norma l ly expected to be financed from nonres ident sources. Such foreign investment may be g iven "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate d iv idends and capital. Such transactions requ ire specific permission from the RBF, wh ich is readily granted upon evidence that the investment funds originated offshore. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in f u ll the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on invest- ments. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, the w i thdrawal of investments is l im i t ed to F$5 m i l l i on a year (increased from F$l m i l l ion a year). Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Approval by the M in is try of Land is required for purchases of state-owned property. Settlements require RBF approval to ensure proceeds are received in F i ji and that funds originate from abroad. Controls on settlements are effected to safeguard local interest before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. There was no ce i l ing on emigration allowance, but authorized banks were a l lowed to make paymen ts up to F$ 100,000 an applicant w i thout the pr ior approval of the RBF. E f fec t ive March 22, 2000, all transfers by emigrants require prior RBF approval. Effective January 1, 2001, the emigration allowance is limited to F$250,000 a fam i ly on a six-month basis for emigrants res id ing pe rmanen t ly overseas (prev ious ly F$ 150,000 a fam i ly ). Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrow ing abroad Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Effective January 1, 2001, the l im i ts for lend ing to a new ly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside F i ji was raised to F$5 m i l l i o n. Lenders may also au tho r ize temporary overdraf ts w i thout reference to the RBF, prov ided f u ll clearance of overdraf ts is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 FIJI carried out w i th in 30 days. Borrowing by nonresident ind iv idua ls is f u l ly delegated to lend ing institutions and commercial banks for amounts up to F$200,000. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange The banks and nonbank financial institutions may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the RBF. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange Inve s tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. An ind iv idu al may (together w i th his or her relatives) own up to 15% of the vo t ing shares of a bank or credit ins t i tu t ion. Ownership through a company may be up to 30%. This does not preclude the establishment of branches or subsidiaries incorporated in F i ji of 100% nonresident-controlled f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. Net open position l im i ts in terms of each bank's actual capital are set at the greater of 12.5% or F$0.4 m i l l i o n, and 25% or F$0.8 m i l l ion up to a max imum of F$7.5 m i l l i o n, for a single currency and overall foreign currency, respectively. The l im it on gross outstanding forward foreign exchange sales contracts is set at 50% of each bank 's capital in F i j i, provided net outstanding forward exchange sales contracts do not exceed F$15 m i l l i o n. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io he ld abroad Effec t ive January 1, 2001, the Fiji National Provident Fund is l im i ted to F$5 m i l l i on in offshore investments. (Effectively, th is fac i l i ty had been suspended since May 22, 2000.) Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Documentary evidence is required for current and capital transfers above F$ 1,000. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts January 1. Commercial banks may authorize local deposits up to F$ 1,000 per transaction. September 4. Authorized banks were allowed to credit proceeds from sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts up to F$50,000 a sale. Other unspecified funds could be deposited up to F$ 1,000 a month. Exports and export proceeds September 12. The 3% export duty on gold and silver was temporarily suspended. Capital transactions January I. The authority to authorize investments in a pub l ic ly listed company and Fiji dollar-denominated deposits of nonresidents for amounts up to F$ 100,000 was delegated to the South Pacific Stock Exchange and the commercial banks. Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 1. Domestic companies were allowed to invest abroad up to F$l m i l l ion a company and the overall ceiling was raised to F$30 m i l l ion. Controls on credit operations January 1. The l im it above which RBF authorization is required for residents to borrow from abroad was raised to F$500,000 from F$ 100,000. Controls on direct investment September 4. Authorized banks could release up to F$50,000 of the amount due for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments. January 1. The l im it on establishing sales offices/subsidiaries abroad by local companies was increased to F$l m i l l i on a company. Nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and ind iv idu a ls may invest abroad up to F$70 m i l l i on and F$20,000, respectively. Controls on personal capital movemen ts March 22. All transfers abroad by em igran ts requ i re pr ior RBF approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 343 Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Documentary evidence is required for current payments and transfers above F$ 1,000 and all capital transfers and emigration transfers require the approval of the RBF. Nonres ident accounts Exports and export proceeds January L The l im it for exports of domestic currency was set at F$500 a person a trip. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to open accounts for regional and international organizations. January J. Au thor ized banks were allowed to approve the offset of earnings from foreign exchange for import payments and other payables of up to F$500,000 an invoice for import paymen ts (increased from F$ 100,000) or F$50,000 an invoice (increased from F$ 10,000) for other payables. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January J. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, commercial banks are allowed to make payments for medical costs of up to F$50,000; these payments are to be made directly to the institution. January 1. Au tho r ized banks were allowed to approve the fo l low ing payments: payments by companies for pensions, superannua t ions, or gratuities (up to F$50,000 of the amount due, increased from F$ 10,000); and re funds on cancelled hotel bookings (up to F$ 10,000 of the amount due, increased from F$5,000 an application). January J. Au thor ized banks may allow a mon th ly payment l im it of up to F$ 10,000 a card holder (increased from F$7,500 a card holder), and up to F$500 cash drawing a mon th. January J. Authorized banks may allow wages paid in foreign currency to foreign crew members of up to F$5,000 of the amount due a beneficiary (increased from F$ 1,000). January 1. The repatriation of profits was l im i ted to F$5 m i l l i on a year (previously F$l m i l l ion a year). D iv id end profit remittances were l im i ted to three years' retained earnings a year, if not prev ious ly remitted (increased from one year's retained earnings). January 1. Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts were imposed on amounts exceeding F$l,000. January 1. The Suva Stock Exchange and the commercial banks were allowed to author- ize investments in a pub l i c ly listed company and F i ji dollar-denominated deposits of nonres iden ts for amounts up to F$500,000 (previously F$ 100,000). Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. Resident companies were allowed to invest abroad up to F$500,000 a year, These investments are restricted to the establishment of subsidiary offices and a max imum of F$ 10,000 a year in equ i ty purchases. Controls on liquidation of direct investment January 1. The w i thdrawal of investments was l im i ted to F$5 m i l l ion a year (from F$l m i l l i on a year). Controls on personal capital movements January 1. The emigration allowance was limited to F$250,000 a family on a six-month basis for emigrants residing permanently overseas (previously F$ 150,000 a fam i ly). Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The l im it to establish a new company by nonresidents was raised to F$5 m i l l ion, Provisions specific to institutional investors January J. The F i ji Na t ional Prov ident Fund is l im i ted to F$5 m i l l i on in offshore investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Finland is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Finnish markka un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro will become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Finnish markka and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Finland participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in res- pect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the ex- ternal exchange rate of the euro is market-determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the F inn ish markka is set at Fmk 5.94573 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. n.a. n.a. No. There are no exchange controls. Import licensing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export licensing relating to international export control regimes is administered by the trade department/foreign trade division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Finland maintains exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions against Iraq and Libya. Un t il November 14, 2000, Finland maintained exchange restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Pursuant to EU regulations, funds in relation to certain ind iv idua ls associated with the former government of Yugoslavia remain frozen. A UN Security Counc il resolution on food for oil (Iraq) is imp lemen ted. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 345 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The fo l low ing products are subject to quantitative import restrictions and requ ire an import license when imported into the EU: agricultural products; certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements with Russia and Ukraine; certain steel products subject to autonomous community quota for Kazakhstan; specific textile products subject to bilateral agreements with third countries, particular third-country textile products subject to autonomous com- mun i ty quotas; and certain Chinese indus tr ial products subject to autonomous commun i ty quotas. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes FINLAND Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Defense. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Acquisition of shares giving at least one-third of the voting rights in a F inn ish defense en- terprise to a single foreign owner requires prior confirmation by the Ministry of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of public defense is jeopardized. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2000, acquisition of real estate by nonresidents for recreational purposes or as secondary residences for those who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least five years was allowed. Controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences by nonresidents in the Aaland Islands. Controls on personal cap ital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prudential regulation harmonized w i th EU directives is applied. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 347 Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts November 14. Exchange restrictions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia were lifted, except as regards funds associated w i th certain ind iv idua ls. Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions January 1. The purchase of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences by those who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least five years was al- lowed, except for property on the Aaland Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender re- mains the French franc un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the French franc and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market France participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external ex- change rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the French franc is set at F 6.55957 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in external exchange rates. A fixed conversion rate of CFPF 1,000 per €8.38 applies to the CFP franc, wh ich is the currency of the overseas territories of French Poly- nesia, New Caledonia, and Wa l l is and Fu tuna Islands. Two groups of Afr ican countries are l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communau te finan- ciere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en A f r ique centrale, issued by the BEAC). The fixed parity is €1 per CFAF 655.957. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Operations Account with the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc at a fixed parity of €1 per CF 491.968. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, wh ich may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward w i th the ir correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase for- eign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, inc lud ing private persons, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward w i thout restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements n.a. n.a. No. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 349 Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The Ministry of Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions on payments have been imposed on Iraq, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000 must be declared to customs upon arrival or departure. On imports Foreign currency At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures A customs declaration is required. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an ad- ministrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Imports of products of the ECSC require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP of the EU are subject to variable import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 FRANCE levies that have replaced previous barriers. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Quantita- t ive restrictions consist of EU-wide and national restrictions. The former include textile and apparel limits under the MFA and voluntary export restraints. For some commodities, such as petroleum and petroleum products, global quotas are allo- cated annua l ly. In other cases, quotas are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that origi- nate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require ind iv idual li- censes. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Duties are collected at the time of entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an anti- dumping levy may be added. Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for works of art and collections of jewels and antiques, wh ich are subject to a levy. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Bonds or other debt securities Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on bonds and other debt securities issued by non-OECD area residents. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment FRANCE 351 Controls do not apply to collective investment securities that are of EU origin and comply with the EU Directive. No. No. Direct investments are defined as those in which foreign investors hold together more than one-third of the capital of a non —publicly listed company. However, there are no controls on investments in a company whose capital is already more than two-thirds foreign owned. In the case of firms whose shares are listed on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI) may also take into account any special rela- tionships resulting from stock options, loans, patents, licenses, and commercial contracts. Inward direct investment An authorization is needed for investments in areas pertaining to pub l ic order and defense. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the MINEFI within 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds have been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies in the EU are required to cover their technical reserves with assets expressed in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA franc. Unitary. Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and inc lude a commission. Commis- sions are levied at the rate of 0.25% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and inter- national public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, Budget, and Privatization (MEFBP) because of the nature of the ir activities. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control No. No. There are no forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Como- ros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun- try. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Effective Sep- tember 30, 2000, the government is allowed to hold oil reserve-related deposits in foreign currencies with commercial banks in Gabon, and to use them to settle foreign debt obliga- tions. On April 29, 2000, the CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmonize the exchange regulations of the member countries. Yes. The Directorate of Financial Institutions (DPI) of the MEFBP supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the MEFBP, which has partly dele- gated approval authority to the authorized banks for current payments and to the BEAC for issues related to the external position of the banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the postal 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency GABON 353 administration and authorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. n.a. No. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the MEFBP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the So- ci&6 gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. Imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CEMAC country to another, but exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC area are prohibited. Residents traveling outside the CEMAC area are subject to the various limits imposed on foreign exchange allocated per trip, depending on the nature of the travel. Nonresident trav- elers may take with them foreign currency or other foreign means of payment equivalent to the maximum amount declared upon entry into the CEMAC area. Above this ceiling or in the absence of declaration, nonresidents must provide supporting documents explaining the origin of such amounts. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import into one CEMAC country from another, but imports of banknotes from outside the CEMAC area, by both residents and nonresidents, are prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad No. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were ap- p l ied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its mem- ber countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents' authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 GABON Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an author- ized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import declarations to or licenses approved by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and the DPI of the MEFBP en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Quantitative restrictions are maintained on imports of sugar and m ineral water. Except for sugar, imports from all countries are permitted freely and do not require licenses. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. The common duty rates of the CEMAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for con- sumer goods. Imports of sugar, poultry, cooking oil, and soap are subject to a surcharge. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CEMAC area must be collected and repatri- ated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the contract, unless a special waiver is granted by the MEFBP. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered w i th in one month of collection. Financing requirements n .r. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports are subject to declaration to the M in is try of Foreign Trade. Export taxes are levied on m in ing products (0.5%) and forest products (5% to 11%). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv is ib les to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to bona fide tests in the form of declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MEFBP. For many types of payments, the monitoring function of the MEFBP has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Administration. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 355 Payments for travel Quantitative limits Residents trave l ing to other countries of the franc zone may obtain an un l im i ted allocation of French francs. W i th in the CEMAC area, BEAC banknotes may be exported without limits. Residents traveling outside the CEMAC area are allowed to take out foreign bank- notes and other means of payment up to a l im it of CFAF 2 m i l l ion and CFAF 5 m i l l ion for tour ism and business purposes, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of pensions and fam i ly ma in tenance. Yes. Persons traveling to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons may obtain an exchange allocation of up to CFAF 2.5 million. Students or trainees leaving Gabon for the first t ime or returning to their normal place of study to countries outside the CEMAC area may obtain an exchange allowance equivalent to CFAF 1 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer 50% of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in three months of the pay period concerned. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFBP, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in for- eign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender w i t h in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital transactions Capital Transactions Capital movements between Gabon and France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely, except for the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and requ ire the approval of the DPI, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 GABON Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese government, and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, of wh ich the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Ins t i tu t ions w i th in 20 days of the operation ex- cept when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Borrowing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id i c al persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The fo l low ing transactions are exempt from this requirement: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of which the total amount out- standing does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. However, for the con- tracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DPI w i th in 20 days of the operation unless the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 m i l l i on or less. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments, inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Gabon, must be declared to the MEFBP unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments must be declared to the MEFBP w i th in 20 days of the operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; w i th in two months of receipt of the declaration, the MEFBP may request the postponement of the project. Foreign companies inves t ing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equ iva lent to at least 10% of the company 's capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 357 Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts in Gabon must be declared to the MEFBP w i th in 20 days of the operation un less the opera t ion invo lves the r e l inqu i sh ing of a shareholding that had prev ious ly been approved as cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment in Gabon. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by non res iden ts are not pe rm i t ted, Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 29. The CEMAC adopted a resolution to harmon ize the exchange regulations of the member countries. September 30. The government was allowed to hold oil reserve-related deposits in foreign currencies w i th commercial banks in Gabon, and to use them to settle foreign debt obligations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian dalasi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Cen- tral Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. Dur ing this session, the average market rate du r ing the week is announced as the rate for customs valuation purposes for the following week. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. n.a. n.a. The Gambia participates in the WAMA. Yes. No. n.a. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Resident Accounts 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 359 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts No. Yes. Accounts denominated in dalasis are designated external accounts and may be opened w i thout reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account ho lder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Designated external accounts may be credited w i th payments from residents of other countries, w i th transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other convertible currencies. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of certain goods are subject to prior authorization for health and security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duty rates range from zero to 20%. All merchandise imports are subject to a na- tional sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt from this tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 THE GAMBIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no capital markets or stock exchange markets in The Gambia. On money market instruments There is no market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits These instruments do not exist in The Gambia. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. There are no deposit accounts in foreign exchange. Foreign exchange exposure limits set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis, and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Georgia is the Georgian lari. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Wh i le the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) does not intervene in the market to defend the exchange rate, it purchases foreign exchange when this is consistent w i th its inf la t ion ob- jectives. The official exchange rate for the dollar is determined daily. The official rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar and the curren- cies concerned in the international market. The off ic ial exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and en- terprises and other legal entities. The NBG and the major commercial banks participate in the fixing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and for- eign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market This market is largely inoperative. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control n.a. n.a. No. The NBG is responsible for issuing a single license to perform bank ing operations in domestic and foreign currencies. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Georgia has accumulated official arrears to China, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) A license is required to trade in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 GEORGIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Up to four units of each currency denomination may be taken out without permission. For exports exceeding this l im i t, NBG authorization is required. On imports A declaration is required. Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. No. n.a. No. No. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports of weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceu- ticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). A customs duty of 12% is levied on most non-CIS imports, as well as imports of fuels from CIS countries; certain goods are subject to a 5% customs duty, including specific capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials. Items exempted from customs duties include baby food, mazut, oil products, goods for embassies, imported goods in customs warehouses, reexports, some pharmaceutical products, and raw materials and semifinished goods destined for production of exports within certain limits. Effective January 1, 2000, the customs processing fee applied to all imports was changed to 0.15% (previously 0.3%) of the value of the product, but not less than lari 50 and not to exceed lari 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 363 State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Other Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. Yes. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; scrap metal; pine seeds; num isma t ic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleon- tological, archaeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for the production of medicine. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. Yes. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the general customs processing fee, applied to all exports, was changed to 0.15% (previously 0.3%) of the va lue of the product, but not less than la ri 50 and not to exceed lari 2,000. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests in the case of all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 364 GEORGIA Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration requirements for monitoring purposes. The issuance, trading, recording, and redemption of government securities are to be regulated. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Under the Foreign Investment Law, the taxation and promotion of investment activities by joint ventures and foreign enterprises are regulated by the current tax legislation. Foreign investment enterprises that received licenses before this law came into effect enjoy all the rights and benefits granted under the previous law for a period of five years from the date of issuance of those licenses. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements were reduced to 15% from 16% on May 20, 2000, and to 14% from 15% on June 20, 2000. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2000 January L The charge for customs processing of both imported and exported goods was changed to 0.15% (previously 0.3%) of the value of the product, but not less than lari 50 and not to exceed lari 2,000. May 20. Reserve requ iremen ts were reduced to 15% from 16%. June 20. Reserve requirements were reduced to 14% from 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender is the deutsche mark un t il January 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender; however, the deutsche mark w i ll con t inue to be accepted for paymen ts u n t il February 28, 2002. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comp r is ing 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), I re land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the deutsche mark is set at DM 1.95583 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in external exchange rates. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and f inanc ial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domes- tic exchange market and at international foreign exchange markets. Germany has no off i- cially fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. In compliance with UN Security Counc il resolutions and EU regulations, restrictions have been imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding the UNITA movement in Angola, inc lud ing its officials and members of the ir fam i l ies, and Iraq. Effective February 14 and June 16, 2000, sanctions against the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan) were imposed. On May 22, 2000, new EU sanctions against certain ind iv idu a ls from Myanmar became effective. Effective November 10, 2000, EU sanctions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were relaxed, except as regards the assets of some 651 persons. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 GERMANY Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from Ch ina is subject to the EU 's annual global quota. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to the agreement on textiles and c lo th ing and to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU w i th various supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a voluntary restric- tions agreement. Imports of rolled steel products from Kazakhstan are subject to an autonomous EU quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 367 Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain exports (mostly military and dual-use goods) are subject to ind iv idua l, global, or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are certain prov is ions for the por tfo l io of l i fe insurance and pension f u n ds for pruden t ial regulations. L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The same regulations apply as for securities. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Currency-matching regulations for l i fe insurance, pension funds, and old-age p rov is ion inves tment funds exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 GERMANY Arrangements for payments and receipts February 14. Sanctions were imposed against the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan). Changes During 2000 May 22. EU sanctions against certain ind iv idua ls from Myanmar came in to effect. June 16. Further sanctions were imposed against the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan). November 10. EU sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were relaxed, except as regards the assets of some 651 persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian cedi. Special swap transactions were operated un t il May 31, 2000, under wh ich the Bank of Ghana (BOG) provided foreign exchange loans to local banks, collateralized by a purchase of treasury b i l ls by banks; the BOG guaranteed the exchange risk at no cost to the commercial bank. The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate is based on the average rates reported by authorized banks in the ir transactions with each other or with the ir customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the BOG and the central banks of the coun t r ies concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries w i th wh ich Ghana does not have b i la teral payment agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that cur- rency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. The Exchange Control Act prohibits the quotation of prices and the acceptance of payments for goods and services in foreign exchange. However, authorized dealers may conduct the ir business in foreign exchange. Ghana has agreements w i th Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Repub l ic. The clearing balances on these agreements are being settled. The BOG records and confirms foreign capital in f lows and administers foreign exchange for off ic ial payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the pr iva te sector are approved and effected by authorized banks without reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 GHANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Domestic transactions in gold must be authorized by the Precious Minerals Marketing Company, and certain domestic sales may be carried out on ly by permit under the Gold M in ing Products Protection Ordinance. Ghana ian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, inc lud ing bu l l ion and partly worked gold, is levied at a un iform rate of 25%. The gold m ines export their output in semirefmed form. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to the equivalent of C5,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equ iva lent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to $5,000 or its equ iva lent in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases. Travelers may reimport up to the equ iva lent of the (£5,000 that they were allowed to export. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is not allowed, except for approved purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts The accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward payments, w i th transfers from other foreign accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies upon approval by the BOG. Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staff. It is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain types of capital proceeds) may be deposited in blocked accounts, wh ich may be debited for authorized payments, inc lud ing for purchases of approved securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 371 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Requ ired for imports above (£5,000. Letters of credit Most imports are effected w i th confirmed LCs established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs On January 1, 2000, the max imum tariff rate was reduced to 20% from 25% of the c.i.f. va lue of imports. At the same time, a 20% special tax was assigned to 366 tariff lines (7% of total). A significant portion of imports, mostly for investment, is exempted. Importers w i thout a taxpayer identification number are subject to a 5% income w i thho ld ing tax on the va lue of the ir imports. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in f u ll the proceeds from their exports w i th in 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold at market rates upon receipt in the banks. Nontraditional exports are not subject to surrender requirements, wh i le 20% to 40% of gold and 98% of cocoa export proceeds are surrendered to the BOG. F inan c ing requirements No. Documentat ion requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion LCs are required, except for nontraditional exports. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required, except for nontraditional exports. Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. Only cocoa exports are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds and payments to farmers, together w i th the Cocoa Board's costs if pro- ceeds exceed payments. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is norma l ly permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Quantitative limits Quan t i ta t ive l im i ts are applied for commissions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 GHANA Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits P r ior approval is requ i red for the payment of amor t iza t ion of loans or dep rec ia t ion of d irect inves tmen ts. Residents t rave l ing abroad are perm i t ted to carry up to the equ iv a l ent of $3,000. In add i- t ion, res ident trave lers are perm i t ted to carry up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 in t rave le r 's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Yes. Su r render requ i remen ts All receipts from i n v i s i b l es must be sold to au tho r ized dealers or he ld in fo re ign exchange- denom ina ted bank accounts in resident banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Non res iden ts may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); i n d i v- idual ho ld ings and total ho ld ings of all non res iden ts in one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, non- res ident par t ic ipa t ion requ i res the fo l low ing m i n im um equ i ty injections to acqu ire shares: ( 1) $10,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods when the enterprise is a jo int ven ture; (2) $50,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods when the enterprise is who l ly owned by a non-Ghana ian; and (3) $300,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods in the case of a trad ing en terpr ise invo lved on ly in the purchas ing and se l l ing of goods that is either who l ly or partly owned by a non -Ghana ian and that emp loys at least 10 Ghanaians. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the MOF. The transfer or repa tr ia t ion of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents There are no con tro ls on these purchases, but the purchase of fore ign exchange to buy secur i t ies requ i res the p r ior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re the p r ior approval of the BOG. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts These transac t ions requ i re the p r ior approval of the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re the pr ior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ ire the prior approval of the BOG. On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Cu r rent regu la t ions do not a l low non re s iden ts to b r ing in fo re ign exchange for the purpose of inve s t ing in local money market in s t rum en ts (BOG and gove rnment securities). How- ever, non res iden ts h o l d i ng local cu r renc ies may invest in these in s t rumen t s. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t ransac t ions are not a l lowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 373 Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply to these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy these instruments requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases require pr ior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions, as we ll as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated w i th these sales, inc lud ing those derived from the l iqu ida t ion of such securities, requ i re BOG approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to buy such securities requ i res p r ior approval from the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ ire the consent of the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Currently, a local market in derivatives and other ins t rumen ts does not exist. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to effect such transactions requires BOG approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits BOG approval is required for these credits, wh ich must be channeled through the bank ing system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents These credits requ ire BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on the ir merits. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Foreign inves tmen ts in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Inves tment Promotion Center (GIPC) if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the GIPC Act, under wh ich approved investments are guaranteed, in p r inc ip le, the r ight to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or l iqu ida t ion, capital proceeds. Tax ho l idays and in i t ial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The m i n im um qu a l i fy ing amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as fo l lows: (1) $10,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a jo in t- venture enterprise with a Ghanaian partner; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equ i ty when the enterprise is who l ly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equ iva lent in goods by way of equity capital when the enterprise is either who l ly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian, employs at least 10 Ghana ians, and is invo lved in the purchas ing and selling of goods. The GIPC Act stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance w i th the established pro- cedure for conc i l ia t ion (for example, through arbitration by the In te rna t ional Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the Un i ted Nations Commission on In te rna t ional Trade and Law). Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Ind iv idu a ls are allowed up to $500. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 GHANA Controls on personal cap ital movements There are controls on all personal capital movements, except for the transfer of assets into the coun try by imm ig ran ts. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad BOG no t if ica t ion is requ i red. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOG no t i f ica t ion is requ ired. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued secur i t ies denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Yes. Yes. These purchases are allowed w i t h in reasonable or acceptable l im i ts. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Based on the vo lume of foreign exchange transactions of banks. This is subject to periodic review. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement May 31. The special swap transactions with banks were discontinued. Imports and import payments January I. The max imum tariff rate was reduced to 20% from 25%, the special import surtax was imp lemen ted, and a 20% special tax was assigned to 366 tariff lines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: J u ly 22, 1992. Currency Exchange Arrangement Through December 31, 2000, the currency of Greece was the Greek drachma. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, Greece adopted the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Greek drachma u n t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between Janua ry 1 and February 28, 2002, both the drachma and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. C lass i f ica t ion Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender P r ior to Janua ry 1, 2001, Greece was a member of the ERM II and the exchange rate for the drachma was determined in the domestic and foreign interbank markets, as we ll as in da i ly f ix ing sessions in wh i ch the Bank of Greece (BOG) and authorized commercial banks participated. On Janua ry 1, 2001, Greece jo ined the EMU, a currency un ion compr is ing 12 members of the EU: Austria, Be lg ium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in respect of the national currenc ies of EMU par t ic ipan ts are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market de te rm ined. The conversion rate between the euro and the drachma was set at Dr 340.75 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in external exchange rates. As a result of Greece jo in ing the EMU, the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category exchange rate w i th no separate legal tender from the category pegged exchange rate w i t h in ho r izon tal bands. No. No. Forward coverage is p rov ided by domestic credit in s t i tu t ions to the ir customers in all ma jor currenc ies at freely negotiable market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or th rough non re s ident deposit accounts in any currency. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, there are no controls on e i ther the use of domestic currency or on the use of fore ign currency among residents. No. There are no exchange controls. Res ident credit ins t i tu t ions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions w i th nonresidents and are obliged to p rov ide to the BOG all the in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the balance of paymen ts. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requ iremen ts Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 GREECE Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports U n t il March 1, 2000, residents could freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the BOG th rough licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the BOG. These gold coins cou ld on ly be resold to the BOG or to the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE). Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965, could sell them w i t h o ut any for- ma l i ty to the BOG or to an authorized bank at the o f f ic ial price. Effec t ive March 2, 2000, natural and ju r id i c al persons, residents, and nonres iden ts may freely purchase and sell gold coins and/or bars that are not used for commercial and indus- tr ial purposes. This gold may be purchased by and sold to the BOG and/or any other credit ins t i tu t ion operating in Greece authorized to carry out transactions in foreign exchange. U n t il March 1, 2000, gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry were allowed to be reexported after approval by the BOG. Effec t ive March 2, 2000, residents and nonresidents are required to declare upon entering and/or leav ing Greece amounts of gold exceeding the equ iva lent of €10,000 and €2,000, respectively, or s u bm it a copy of the document certifying that the relevant latter transaction was carried out by a resident credit ins t i tu t ion. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents leaving Greece should declare amoun ts of banknotes in domestic and/or foreign currency exceeding the equ iva lent of €2,000. In th is declaration, they must also provide the purpose of the export of banknotes; in add i t ion, residents of Greece must provide th e ir fiscal numbe r. If the amount exceeds the e q u i v a l e nt of €10,000, residents must also provide a copy of their tax certificate. Yes. Yes. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents entering Greece should declare the amount of imported banknotes in domestic and foreign currency if the total amount ex- ceeds the equivalent of €10,000. Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, all types of accounts in any currency, he ld domestically or abroad, are allowed. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Residents are permitted to convert drachma deposits he ld w i th resident credit in s t i tu t ions in to foreign currency deposits. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked accounts No. GREECE 377 Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are requ ired for some specific products from certain low-cost coun t r ies under EU surve i l lance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items such as med i- cines, narcotics, and motion p ic ture f i lm s. Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopo ly Yes. Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requirements F inan c ing requ irements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no l im i ts for these transactions, However, if the amount exceeds €10,000, suppor t ing documentation must be presented for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requirements Restr ict ions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Ex is t ing legislation on inward direct inves tment and establishment imposes certain controls on the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature in the broadcasting and ma r i t ime sectors by non-EU residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 GREECE Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition No. No. Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of na t ional security. There are also controls on the acquisition of m in ing rights and participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or ma r i t ime and air transport. No. No. No. No. There are certain provisions which d i f fer according to the type of institutional investor. The same regulations apply as above. The same regulations apply as above. Regulations applied to EU countries are in effect. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2000 March 2. Natural and jur id ical persons, residents, and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell gold coins and/or bars that are not used for commercial and indus t r ial purposes. This gold may be purchased by and sold to the BOG and/or any other credit in s t i tu t ion operating in Greece authorized to carry out transactions in foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents were required to declare upon entering and/or leaving Greece amounts of gold exceeding the equ iva lent of €10,000 and €2,000, respectively. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January 1. Greece jo ined the EMU. The conversion rate between the euro and the drachma was set at Dr 340.75 per €1. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. All controls on the use of domestic currency or on the use of foreign currency among residents were e l im ina ted. Resident accounts January 1. All types of accounts in any currency, held domestically or abroad, were allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: January 24, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar, w h i ch is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean do l lar is pegged to the U.S. do l lar, the in terven t ion currency, at EC$2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th residents of the former Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Set- t lemen ts w i th residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. n.a. n.a. Grenada is a member of the CARICOM. Grenada participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the MOF and applies to all countries. The MOF del- egates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve some import payments and certain o ther ou tward payments. The Trade D iv is ion of the MOF administers trade control. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions There are restrictions on trade relations with Libya. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and indu s t r ial users are not pe rm i t ted to ho ld or acqu i re gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins for num i sma t ic purposes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs du t ies and charges. The MOF issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not no rma l ly permitted. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 GRENADA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada, and both residents and nonresidents must re- ceive permission from the MOF to take out, in any one transaction, sums in excess of EC$250,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only w i th foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holders of these accounts must subm it regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The same regulations apply as for resident accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts must be credited w i th funds from an external source. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods and services in excess of the limits of ADs require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Prohibited goods inc lude whole chickens, chicken eggs, l ive breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quantitative restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, inclu- ding arms and ammun i t ion, carbonated beverages, flour, industrial gas, paints, and mis- cellaneous items associated w i th fu rn i tu re and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, industrial gas, furn i ture, and solar water heaters. Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Effec t ive January 15, 2000, Grenada applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. All imports from non-CARICOM countries are subject to the fo l low ing CET rates: zero ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 381 for agricultural imports; 40% for agr icu l tural products; and 15% to 20% (lowered from 25%) for most other items. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge. Imports not granted exemptions from customs duties are subject to a general consumption tax (GCT) regime w i th three broad rates of 10%, 15%, and 25%. There are three add i t ional GCT rates of 50%, 55%, and 75% that are applied to specific items such as new cars, for- eign used cars, and cigarettes, respectively. An env ironmen tal levy is charged that consists of an ECS0.25 duty on each imported bottle of liquor, carbonated and noncarbonated bev- erages, and syrups. The levy also consists of a 1% charge on the c.i.f. of wh i te goods (dura- ble consumer items) and a 2% charge on the c.i.f. of imported cars. Imports of capital equ ipment are subject to a m i n im um charge of 5% under the GET and 25% under the con- sumption tax. However, most capital imports are granted exemptions from import duties, and all capital imports by domestic associations invo lved in the growing or packaging of bananas, maize, or nutmeg are exempt from import duties, provided that the imports are used for improvements in the industries. State import monopoly The Marketing and National Importing Board is the sole authorized importer of bu lk purchases of milk, flour, and sugar. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Proceeds must be surrendered to ADs (commercial banks) in foreign exchange. n.a. n.a. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of exotic birds, coral, m ineral products, and live sheep and goats to any destination. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted but requ i re the approval of the MOF whenever a single transaction exceeds EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if all related liabilities have been discharged and the investment was registered with the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 Personal payments Prior approval GRENADA For studies abroad, MOF approval is required, and permission is usually granted on pre- sentation of documentation of registration and the costs of tu i t ion and other expenses. For transfer of pensions, approval is granted upon proof of imm ig rant status. For f am i ly m a in- tenance and alimony payments, approval is granted upon proof of established l iab i l i t ies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of imm igrant status. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on the payment of subscriptions and membe rsh ip fees. MOF approval is required and is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payment for consu l t ing and legal fees services. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, subject to w i thho ld ing on income tax, where applicable. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from inv is ib les is mandatory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Any single outward capital transaction in excess of EC$250,000 requires exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is requ i red. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On co l lec t ive investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 383 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Local currency f inanc ing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not o rd ina r i ly perm i t ted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Cabinet approval via the Industrial Development Corporation is normally required for non- residents operating manufacturing enterprises and hotels, and an alien landholding license is required for nonresidents to hold both financial and physical property. Nonresident labor services are generally permitted with work permits, wh ich are issued by the M in is t ry of Labor. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related l iab i l i t ies have been discharged and that the or ig inal investment was registered w i th the MOF. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An alien landholding license must be issued by the Office of the Prime Minister. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Any borrowing abroad by nationals to finance their domestic operations generally requires the approval of the MOF. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ADs may freely assume short-term l iab i l i ty positions in foreign currencies to finance ap- proved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by ADs to f inance the ir domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Local currency f inanc ing requires the approval of the MOF but is not o rd ina r i ly permitted. No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 GRENADA Imports and import payments January 15. Grenada applied the four th phase of the CARICOM GET. As a result, the max imum external tariff was lowered to 20% from 25%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of May 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan quetzal. E f fec t ive May 1, 2001, the use of foreign currency in Guatemala is a l lowed. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market where the Bank of Gua tema la (BOG) intervenes to moderate undue fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange on beha lf of the pub l ic sector, and to service its own external debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the pub l ic sector must take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equ iv a l ent to the weighted average of the buy ing and selling rates in the interbank market du r ing the day before the previous business day. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with special payments agreements. Effec t ive May 1, 2001, the use of foreign currency is allowed. However, the issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. There are payment arrangements under the Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Recip- rocal Agreement and the Panama-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Guatemala and El Salvador, Honduras, and Costa Rica func t ioned un t il 1995. Gua tema la is a member of the CACM. Yes. The BOG adm in is te rs the exchange regime. Foreign exchange transactions in the p u b l ic sector are carried out exc lus ive ly through the BOG; those in the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. On De- cember 19, 2000, congress approved a new Foreign Exchange Law that allows the use of foreign currency. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Arrears are maintained w i th Spain. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 GUATEMALA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade The BOG may buy and sell gold coins and bu l l ion either directly or through authorized banks and is entitled to buy gold holdings surrendered by any resident. The BOG sells gold to domestic artistic or indus t r ial users in accordance w i th gu ide l ines from the Monetary Board w i th the gove rnmen t 's approval. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the BOG issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the BOG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ju r id ical and na tural persons are e l ig ib le. Banks, however, have not yet offered these accounts because the rules for foreign exchange deposits are s t i ll under d iscuss ion. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative l ist Nonresident Accounts Diplomats and employees of international institutions are eligible to hold these accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and requ i re ne i ther registration nor a license. How- ever, Guatemalan imports of agricultural commodities and animal products have been sub- ject to tariffs. At present, those products are incorporated in and regulated w i th in the WTO charter as very sensitive for the Guatemalan economy. The list inc ludes goods considered dangerous to the society, such as weapons, certain chemicals, and drugs. Weapons may be imported on ly w i th the approval of the appropriate department. Open general licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs GUATEMALA 387 On March 21, 2000, the government eliminated the tariff on imports of around 196.3 m i l- l ion kilograms of sugar. This amount w i ll be increased annu a l ly by 10.75% in the fo l low ing f ive years. Guatemala applies the GET for processed goods from the CACM, wh ich ranges from zero to 15%, with v i r tua l ly all intra-CACM trade exempt from ta r i f fs. The max imum ta r i f fs on raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods produced in Central America are 5% and 10%, respectively, w h i le there are no ta r i f fs on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods not produced in Central America. Some processed products, such as coffee, sugar, o i l, wheat, and alcohol, wh ich are traded w i th the CACM, are subject to tar iffs rang ing from 1% to 15%. Guatemala's tariff structure continues to exempt certain processed products from the max imum CET rate of 15%. The tariff rates for most footwear, textiles, and tires are 27%, 20%, and 17%, respectively. In add i t ion, certain agr icu l tural products enjoy safeguard provisions and are subject to ta r i ff rate quotas under WTO rules, wh ich also allow tar iffs we ll above the max imum rate for imports in excess of quota. Poultry and poultry parts are subject to a quota of 7,000 metric tons a year, with tariffs of 15% w i th in quota and 45% in excess of quota. Other examples are apples and pears (12% and 25%); corn (5% and 35%); and wheat f lour (8.28% and 15%). Rice is subject to a quota of 33,435 metric tons a year, with a tariff of zero and a range of tariffs between 18% and 36% in excess of the quota. These quotas are adjusted yearly, fo l low ing discussions between the private sector and the government. Effective March 15, 2001, a trade agreement between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico came in to force, g iv ing certain tar iff benefits to the participants. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds must be sold to an authorized participant in the interbank mar- ket other than the BOG. The granting of export licenses is contingent upon the agreement to sell export proceeds to any authorized participant in the in terbank market other than the BOG w i t h in 90 days of the date of issue ( th is period may be extended to 180 days). F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Exporters must obtain an export license issued by the BOG before the Guatemalan customs can authorize sh ipment of the merchandise. A few other items, inc lud ing gold (unless the BOG issues a special export license) and silver, may not be exported in any form. In the case of exports to Central America, export licenses are required on ly for statistical purposes. Exports of apparel and textiles to the U.S. market are subject to quotas. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Effec t ive May 1, 2001, surrender requ iremen ts were e l im ina ted. P rev ious ly, proceeds for invisibles had to be sold to an authorized financial institution at the market rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 GUATEMALA Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special leg is la t ion. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions No. No. No. Borrowing abroad For banks and credit institutions, approval of the Monetary Board is requ ired. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Effec t ive May 1, 2001, controls on these transactions were e l im ina ted. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Effective May 1, 2001, the d ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange was e l im ina ted. Effec t ive May 1, 2001, the d i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by nonres iden ts was eliminated. The l im it for banks and f inance companies is 25% of the va lue of the ir pa id -up capital and reserves; for exchange houses, it is 100%. Foreign exchange exceeding these l im i ts at the end of each day must be negotiated in the interbank market or sold to the BOG. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 19. Congress approved a new Foreign Exchange Law, wh ich came in to force on May 1,2001. Imports and import payments March 21. The government eliminated the tariff on imports of around 196.3 m i l l i on k i lo- grams of sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 389 Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement May 1. The domestic use of foreign currency was allowed. Arrangements for payments and receipts May 1. The use of foreign currency was allowed, although the issue of securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange by banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. Imports and import payments March 15. A trade agreement between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico came into force. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions May 1. Surrender requ iremen ts were e l im ina ted. May 1. The differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange was eliminated. May 1. The differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents was eliminated. May 1. Controls on lending locally in foreign exchange were e l im ina ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 3J, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Gu inea is the Guinean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The official exchange rate of the Guinean franc is determined weekly in the auction market for foreign exchange. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to buy and sell foreign exchange at any rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements. Settlements w i th countries other than members of the WAMA are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (CBRG). n.a. n.a. Gu inea ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements w i th Bulgaria, China, the Czech Repub l ic, Egypt, Romania, and Russia. Settlements with the BCEAO and with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are generally carried out through the WAMA. Exchange control authority is vested in the CBRG, which has delegated to the commer- cial banks authority to (1) sign import descriptions and descriptive import applications; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding a ir l ine tickets for travel abroad; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. All settlements with foreign countries, includ- ing payments for imports, may be effected by the commercial banks. On March 28, 2000, the national assembly adopted and promulgated the Exchange Control Law, liberalizing current account transactions. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Yes. Yes. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 391 Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The CBRG purchases gold only in Guinean francs at in terna t ional prices. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restrictions. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is subject to pr ior authorization by the CBRG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. Exportation of foreign currency is made through the CBRG. Importation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. The importation of foreign banknotes and trave ler's checks is permitted, subject to declara- tion on entry. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks or exchange them for Guinean francs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are free to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Exporters may hold all of their earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval of the CBRG is required for jur id ical per- sons and a simple notification to the CBRG is required for natural persons. Yes. n.a. Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of their origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commer- cial banks into foreign currencies w i thout pr ior authorization from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts The same regu la t ions apply as for res ident accounts. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. F inan c ing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requ i remen ts The m i n im um f inanc ing requirement is $2,000 or its equivalent. Advance payment requirements Advance paymen ts may be established by the commercial agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 GUINEA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no restrictions on imports financed from importers' own resources or through the foreign exchange market. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Negative list Imports of armaments, ammun i t ions, and narcotics are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, a fiscal import duty (DFE) of 8%, and a customs du ty (DDE) of 7%, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions: animals, f lour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a DFE of 6% and a DDE of 2%; and food industry imports, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to a DFE of 8% and a DDE of 2%. In addition, a surtax of 20% to 70% is imposed on all luxury goods, nonalcoholic bever- ages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports by the three semipublic enterprises in the m in ing sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Private traders may retain all of their proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold export- ers and vendors may retain all of their proceeds. Semipublic enterprises may retain abroad all of their proceeds and may use them for import payments, operating costs, and external debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description to he lp prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption and to id en t i fy capital ou tf lows. M in ing sector exports are exempt from th is requ i remen t. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes The exportation of w i ld animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds requ ire special authorization from designated agencies. These are applicable to agricultural exports. There are quotas on the export of w i ld animals and articles of historic or ethnographic in- terest. Exports of diamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. Other export taxes M in ing and petroleum products are subject to other export taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 393 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are no controls on the payment of un load ing and storage costs. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for government operations. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is requ ired for the payment of pensions. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no ind ica t ive l im i ts or bona fide rates for the payment of pensions. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. Foreign workers may transfer up to 50% of their taxable income. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Gu inean nationals through the official market are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are cu r ren t ly no transactions invo lv ing bonds. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 GUINEA Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts No. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit and guarantee operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The authorization of the CBRG is required. There are no l im i ts on amounts that nonresidents may invest in Guinea, and all Guinean and foreign nationals may ho ld controlling interests in Guinean enterprises. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions The au thor iza t ion of the CBRG is required for all real estate transactions. Controls on personal cap ital movements Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions There are controls on all these operations. Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) The only form of lend ing to nonresidents that is allowed is overdraft protection on domestic currency checking accounts. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 28. The national assembly adopted and promulgated the Exchange Control Law, l ibe ra l iz ing cu r rent account transactions. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are der ived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its en t ire ty to the Treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle paymen ts related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Guinea-Bissau is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected either through corres- pondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. n.a. n.a. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The ap- proval au thor i ty for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, fo rwa rd ex- change cover, and the opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, which is also authorized to collect —either directly or through banks, f inan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, or jud ic ial agents- -any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Settlements w i th a country outside the Operations Account area must be fo rma l ly approved by the customs adm in is t ra t ion. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 GUINEA-BISSAU International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Yes. Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are suspended. In addition, ship- ments of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above th is ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks or w i th banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, and with the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. The holding of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations proh ib it any transfer with the aim of increasing a resident's foreign holdings, unless approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currency on the o f f ic ial exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 397 Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports, regardless of whether they invo lve the use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, p r ima r i ly for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued auto- matically after verification of invoice prices for goods to be taxed. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Effec t ive August 1, 2000, the authorities began imp lemen t ing the harmonization of external tariffs within the WAEMU zone. Under this GET system, the number of tariff rates was reduced to four: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. Prior to that date, the tariff rates were 5%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries do not have to be repatriated. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on wh ich payments fa ll due. The authorized intermediary bank must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a prior export license. Only exporters registered w i th the M in is try of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. The m id-Apr il 2000 law requiring that noncitizens obtain marketing or export licenses only after they have spent a certain length of time in the country was revoked in mid-May 2000. Thus, the situation reverts to the prior system, in wh ich licenses are intended p r ima r i ly for statistical purposes. There are no products of wh ich the exportation is reserved solely for the pub l ic sector. Yes. Cashew nut exports are subject to a special tax of 10%, except those to ECOWAS countries. Other agr icu l tural exports are subject to a rural property tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available for payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 GUINEA-BISSAU Personal paymen ts Foreign workers' wages In fo rm a t ion is not ava i lab le for payment of pensions, fam i ly maintenance, or a l imony. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. Su r render requ i remen ts All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all incomes earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Restr ict ions on use of funds No. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions Outward capital transfers are subject to authorization from the MOF, and a max imum of 75% of investment abroad may be financed by foreign loans. The liquidation of foreign inves tment must be reported to the MOF, and the reinvestment of proceeds is subject to pr ior authorization. If no authorization is given for the reinvestment, the proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank w i t h in one mon th. Capital transfers to the WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, except for direct inves tmen ts, which are subject to prior declaration, as are certain borrowing operations. Pr ior au thor iza t ion is waived, however, in the fo l low ing cases: (1) borrowing guaranteed by the gove rnment of Guinea-Bissau; and (2) foreign shares that are s im i lar to securities, the issuance, pub l ic announcement, or sale of which has already been approved in Guinea- Bissau. There is also special surve i l lance of calls for subscribed funds for purposes of deposit w i th foreign nationals, corporations, or institutions, as well as of any pub l ic an- nouncement for the purpose of inves t ing funds abroad or subscribing to foreign con- struction or real estate operations. These special provisions also apply to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. Yes. Yes. Residents are free to sell the shares of resident companies abroad. If the effect of such op- erations is to place resident Guinea-Bissau companies under foreign control, the foreign investors must make a prior declaration to the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 399 Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These investments are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments, except for commodity and security call and put options, wh ich residents may freely purchase abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on wh ich payment falls due is not more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. There are no controls on credits in connection with services rendered. In these cases, no dead l ine is set for the date on wh ich payment fa l ls due. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are genera l ly approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the va l id i ty of the commercial operation or of the services rendered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment If such transactions take place between a direct inves tment company established in Gu inea- Bissau and its parent company situated abroad, the transactions are regarded as d irect investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. The Inves tment Code provides for incentives to inves tmen ts and protection against the nationalization and expropriation of assets. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents require notification to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF au thor iza t ion. Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to MOF au thor iza t ion. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions requ ire no t if ica t ion to the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 GUINEA-BISSAU Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations invo lve commercial credits. Other loans granted to nonresidents are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, after the approval of the BCEAO. Lending locally in foreign exchange The same regulations apply as for lend ing to residents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The same regulations apply as for lend ing to residents. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no distinction between resident deposit accounts, nonresident deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Prov is ions specific to inst itut ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments August 1. The au thor i t ies began imp lemen t ing the harmonization of external ta r i f fs w i t h in the WAEMU zone. Under this CET system, the number of tariff rates was reduced to fou r: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20% (previously zero, 5%, 10%, 20%, and 30%). Exports and export proceeds April 17. A law allowing noncitizens to obtain marketing or export licenses on ly after a certain length of time spent in the country came into effect; it was revoked a month later. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guyana is the Guyana do l lar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is determined freely in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana (BOG) conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio exchange rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. No. No. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the o f f ic ial sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in dor- mant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been g iven for deposits made after end-March 1989. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic cur- rency Use of foreign exchange among resi- dents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. n.a. n.a. Operative There are arrangements w i th all CARICOM central banks. Regional arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Guyana is a member of the CARICOM. No. No. Official Private Arrears, wh ich are due to ongoing negotiations under the H igh ly Indebted Poor Coun tr ies In i t ia t ive, exist with Argentina, China, Ind ia, Kuwa i t, Libya, Russia, and the Federal Re- pub l ic of Yugoslavia. Arrears exist on certain dormant accounts ho ld ing domestic currency deposits equ iva lent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 GUYANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form except for num isma t ic purposes and jewelry, at home or abroad, w i thout special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and indus t r ial users requ ire permits endorsed by the Guyana Gold Board. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers entering or leaving Guyana must declare foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Exporters are allowed to ma in ta in and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are approved on me r it but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who requ ire impor- ted inpu ts for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited w i th all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Yes. No. The balances of these accounts may be converted at the preva i l ing cambio exchange rate. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by commercial banks w i thout the pr ior approval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other countries temporarily res id ing in Guyana, nonresidents attached to d ip loma t ic missions or international organizations, branches of companies incorporated outside of Guyana, and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars and may be credited with noncash instruments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the bank ing system. These accounts may also be credited freely with all author- ized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other external accounts, for withdrawals by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The BOG prepares a hard currency —receipts-and-payments statement to mon i tor projected flows. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 403 F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction. Most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Certain payments for official imports effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG require the Bank's prior approval. Requirements are related mainly to petroleum products. Other Documents required inc lude invoices, b i l ls of lading, and certificates of origin. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum prod- ucts and some 20 items affecting national security, pub l ic health and safety, and the env i ronmen t. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, f ru i t, and processed f ru it items from all non- CARICOM sources are restricted, subject to import-licensing controls. The GET of CARICOM is applied to all imports from outside the market. Tariffs range from 5% to 20%, except for agr icu l tural products, for wh ich the tariff is 40%. Intra- CARICOM trade is free of import duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of gold and w i ld l i f e. Go ld exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferential markets and for w i l d l i fe exports. There are levies on exports of rice and sugar. An export duty is applied for exports of t imbe r, baux i te, sugar, l ive birds, and aquar ium fish. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on credit operations All types of cred it operations are controlled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 GUYANA Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Banks are requ ired to obtain approval from the MOF before lend ing to nonresident enterprises. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are requ i red to obtain approval from the MOF before lend ing to nonres ident enterprises. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Open positions are being monitored. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian gourde. The dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate is determined in the exchange market. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH) —the central bank —operates a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates of the dollar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by banks, w i th money changers fo l low ing this market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade No. n.a. n.a. Ha i t i 's debt to Argentina was rescheduled for 2001 and that to Italy for 2028. Haiti has been a member of the CARICOM since Ju ly 1999. However, Ha i t i's actual accession to the CARICOM w i ll take place once parliament ratifies the treaty. The BRH administers the foreign exchange system together w i th the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs (MFEA) and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). n.a. No. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Ha i ti for num isma t ic purposes. The BRH has the exc lus ive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, m ineral dust, or bars. Exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the MCI and the MFEA, as we ll as an endorsement from the MCI, before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 HAITI such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited w i th export proceeds, w i th transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or w i th receipts from mar i t ime agencies and non- governmental organizations. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are three standard tariff rates, 5%, 10%, and 15%, and the max imum tariff for most non-CARICOM items is 20%. Several goods have special tariff rates—gasoline, 57.8%; and cement, rice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic turnover tax is charged on the c.i.f. va lue p lus import duties. All imports, except for inpu ts used by certain export industries, are subject to a 4% verification fee. As Haiti is a member of the CARICOM, numerous exemptions and suspensions have been negotiated to avoid tariff increases under the CET. These suspensions and extensions are va l id un t il 2005. The suspension mechanism can also be used in case of supply shortages and local price increases for certain goods w i th in the common market. State impo rt monopo ly No. Repatr iat ion requ irements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 407 F inan c ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. n.a. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of d irect investments. Personal paymen ts In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the transfer of pensions, fam i ly maintenance, and a l imony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transact ions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Inves tmen ts requ ire prior government approval, Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap i tal movements n.a. n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Private banks are required to maintain at least 85% of their liabilities in domestic assets for local customers. This requirement, however, is not enforced. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effec t ive Ap r il 16, 2000, the reserve requirement on gourde deposits was raised to 28% from 26.5% and the reserve requirement on dollar-denominated deposits was raised to 17% from 15%. On September 1, 2000, these requirements were raised to 30% and 20% and, on September 15, 2000, to 31% and 21%, respectively. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 HAITI Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions April 16. The reserve requirement on gourde deposits was raised to 28% from 26.5% and that on do l lar-denom ina ted deposits was raised to 17% from 15%. September 1. The reserve requirement on gourde deposits was raised to 30% and that on dollar-denominated deposits was raised to 20%. September 15. The reserve requirement on gourde deposits was raised to 31% and that on dollar-denominated deposits was raised to 21%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1950. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Craw l ing band The exchange rate for the lemp ira is de term ined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are requ i red to sell all the ir da i ly foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private ind iv idua ls) bid at a price that may not d i f fer from the base pr ice set by the authorities by more than 7% in either direction. The base exchange rate is adjusted every five auctions according to changes in the d i f fe ren t ial between domestic and international inflation and in the exchange rates of currencies of trading partners of Honduras with respect to the dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of fore ign exchange from its agents. The m i n im um amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Individuals w i l l ing to purchase foreign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between $5,000 and $300,000. Foreign exchange agents may purchase for their own account to satisfy private demands of less than $5,000. The m a x im um amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased for th is purpose is $50,000 for commercial banks and $15,000 for foreign exchange houses (increased from $30,000 and $10,000, respectively, on September 14, 2000). Foreign exchange agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the p u b l ic of less than $5,000 and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Auction rates may deviate from the base rate by ±7%. Auc t ions are he ld once each wo rk ing day, and each b idder may make up to three offers in each auction. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment obligations of any nature made in Honduras have to be settled in lempiras, except for those contracted and documented in foreign currency. Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Honduras is a member of the CACM. Trade transactions w i th the rest of Cen tral Amer ica may be carried out in local cu r renc ies or in dollars. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In t e rna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. No. No. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 HONDURAS Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to hold these deposits in one of the following: (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults, (2) deposits in the CBH, (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (4) investments in high-liquidity foreign instruments, or (5) export or import financing instruments. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Tariffs are 1% for capital goods, 5% for raw materials and intermediate goods, and up to 15% for f inal goods. Some imports from non-CACM countries have different status and, in general, higher tariffs. All CACM countries have agreed to base the different treatment of these items on temporary external conditions. There are duty-free and industrial-processing zones that benefit from tariff exemptions. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export earnings, except those from trade with other Central American countries, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses within a period of 20 to 85 days. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30% of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized external obligations. Commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell all purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. F inanc ing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 411 Documentation requ irements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Yes. No licenses are requ ired, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. Bananas were subject to an export tax of $0.10 for a 40-pound box. On September 14, 2000, this export tax was abolished. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are required to f i ll out a form for statistical purposes. There are no limits on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms are permitted, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations The approval of congress is required for all pub l ic sector foreign borrowing. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments are permitted in all sectors without control, with the exception of defense- related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered w i th the Secretary of Economy and Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 HONDURAS Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are location and size limitations. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The l im it of indebtedness is three times their capital and reserves. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required. Financial institutions may lend 50% of their foreign exchange deposits locally in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Currently, banks, nonbank financial institutions, and savings and loan associations are sub- ject to a nonremunerated reserve requirement of 12% on all deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign currency. In addition, for deposits in domestic currency, mandatory investments remunerated at a market-based interest rate, equivalent to 7% of deposits for banks, 3% for nonbank financial institutions, and 5% for savings and loan associations. For deposits in foreign currency, financial institutions are required to deposit 38% in foreign banks. Credit controls Forty percent of funds from foreign exchange deposits may be given as credit to export- related activities, and 10% may be given for any purpose. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Currently, banks, nonbank financial institutions, and savings and loan associations are subject to a nonremunerated reserve requirement of 12% on all deposits both in domestic and foreign currency. In addition, for deposits in domestic currency, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are required to hold obligatory deposits at the central bank at a market-based interest rate equivalent to 7% of deposits for banks, 3% for nonbank financial institutions, and 5% for savings and loans associations. The amount of obligatory commercial bank deposits required to be kept in official securities was gradually reduced to 7% from 13% (by 3% in June, 1.5% in September, and 1.5% in October 2000). For deposits in foreign currency, financial institutions are required to deposit 38% in foreign banks, and may lend 50% ma in ly to export activities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement September 14. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased to satisfy low-denominated private demands for foreign exchange was increased to $50,000 for commercial banks and $15,000 for foreign exchange houses (from $30,000 and $10,000, respectively). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 413 Exports and export proceeds September 14. The export tax on bananas was abolished. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 3. The amount of obligatory commercial bank deposits required to be kept in official securities was reduced to 11% from 13%. June 17. The amount of obligatory commercial bank deposits required to be kept in official securities was reduced to 10% from 11%. September 9. The amount of obligatory commercial bank deposits required to be kept in official securities was reduced to 8.5% from 10%. October 21. During 2000, the compulsory remunerated reserve requirement and the mandatory investment requirement on commercial bank deposits were gradually reduced to 7% from 13%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of July 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian fo r in t. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Craw l ing band Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative E f fec t ive January 1, 2000, the Na t ional Bank of Hungary (NBH) adjusted the central par- ity of the fo r int by a preannounced rate of crawl against the euro. On Ap r il 1, 2000, the mon th ly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 0.3% from 0.4%. The off ic ial exchange rate is fixed at 11:00 a.m. every day and is calculated for 24 convertible currencies, inc lud ing the euro, w i th in marg ins of 2.25%, but licensed banks are free to determine the ir own mar- g ins w i th in the band. No. No. Commercial banks may engage in forward transactions at exchange rates negotiated freely between the banks and their customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. There are agreements w i th Brazil and Ecuador, under wh ich outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. There are agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Russia, and Vietnam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods. Regional arrangements Hungary is a member of the CEFTA. Adm in is tra t ion of control Au tho r i ty for enforcing foreign exchange regulations is vested in the NBH. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Hungary ma in ta ins payment restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may take out of the country up to Ft 350,000 a t r ip w i thout au thor iza t ion. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency HUNGARY 415 Exports are l im i ted to the equ iva lent of Ft 100,000 a person a trip without authorization. Imports are l im i ted to Ft 350,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Resident natural persons may freely maintain convertible currency accounts at authorized commercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts w i th funds originating from specific sources, such as export proceeds, foreign borrowing, capital paid in conver t ib le currency by the foreign owners of jo in t -ven tu re companies, and proceeds from direct and portfolio investments abroad, inheritance, or donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches and social organizations, and budgetary institutions. Approval is required for titles not mentioned above. Residents may hold, without permission, foreign exchange accounts abroad if they are wo rk ing or staying abroad, maintain a resident office or are main contractors, for the purpose of an in i t ial capital deposit account in connection w i th making outward foreign direct investment, or for credit accounts and margin accounts in connection with com- modity stock. As of Ju ly 1, 2000, resident fund managers were authorized to hold ac- counts abroad in which to keep the securities and their earnings abroad in order to tech- nically facilitate investment operations. In all other cases, permission to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad is required. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency NBH approval is requ i red. Conversion is free for all liberalized items and in all authorized cases. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Conver t ib le fo r int accounts may be credited with legally acquired fo r in t; proceeds from the conversion of convertible currency or for int acquired from nonliberalized or unauthorized transactions must be placed in a nonconvertible forint account, which does not bear interest. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for a number of products, inc lud ing imports destined for the settle- ment of outstanding balances in transferable or clearing rubles. About 95% of Hungarian imports are f u l ly l ibera l ized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 Negative list Licenses with quotas HUNGARY Yes. Licenses are needed for products f a l l i ng und er the global quo ta on con sumer goods. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Goods for personal use b rought in by re tu rn ing Hunga r ian travelers are subject to a gen- eral import du ty of 15%, based on the actual invo ice price w i th a du ty - f ree a l lowance of Ft 30,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs du ty, goods for personal use up to a va lue equ iva lent to 40% of the ir earnings. Goods imported in to Hunga ry are sub- ject to customs du t ies in accordance w i th established and pub l i shed ta r i f fs. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds in conve r t ib le currenc ies must be repatriated to Hungary upon receipt of the fore ign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, stipulated in the law, or sub ject to specific approval by the NBH. In the case of nonconve r t ib le currenc ies, the exporters are requ i red to make a best effort to exchange them in to conve r t ib le cu r rency and repa tr ia te the conve r t ib le cu r rency. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of items inc luded in the negative l ist r equ i re a license. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds are subject to the same requirement as export proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Transactions in OECD central government bonds, bonds and shares of OECD-based enter- prises (in the case of both bonds, those w i th an original maturity of one year or longer), and the sale of shares of parent companies to the employees of their subsidiary companies are free. For transactions in other ins trumen ts, foreign exchange authorization is required. The authorization is l ibe ra l ly granted, on a case-by-case basis, after a request and its accompa- ny ing documents have been subm i t ted. All proceeds associated w i th authorized transac t ions may be free ly converted and transferred abroad by nonres iden ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 417 Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for sale or issue locally by nonresidents. Funds required for transactions may be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. The transaction must take place through a resident brokerage company. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Permission of the NBH is required if the original ma tur i ty of bonds or other debt securities is less than 365 days. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for sale or issue locally by nonresidents. Funds required for transactions may be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. The transactions must take place through a resident brokerage company. The permission of the NBH is required for pub l ic or private offer ing of bonds and other debt securities issued by residents to foreigners or for listing such securities at a recognized securities market in a foreign country if the original maturity of such securities is less than 365 days. Under the Securities Act, such transactions are subject to the approval of the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority. These transactions require a foreign exchange authorization, wh ich is granted in excep- t ional cases on a case-by-case basis, after a request and its accompanying documen ts have been submitted. Proceeds associated w i th the transaction may be freely converted and transferred abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds require authoriza- tion, wh ich is granted in exceptional cases. The same regulations apply as for transactions in money market instruments, except that, effec t ive Ju ly 1, 2000, foreign collective investment securities are admitted to the domestic market if (1) the fund manager is registered in an OECD member state; (2) the f u n d 's in- vestment policy focuses on instruments that are already liberalized and freely available for residents of Hungary; and (3) the initial offer ing of the securities took place in an OECD member country. The same regulations apply as for transactions in money market instruments, except that residents may freely purchase abroad collective investment securities for closed-end funds or ones for wh ich approval was granted through resident inves tment companies. Sale or issue abroad by residents Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds require authoriza- tion, which is granted in exceptional cases. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These transactions requ i re authorization, wh ich is granted in exceptional cases on a case- by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents As an exception, nonres iden ts are permitted to trade in fu tu res contracts for i n d i v i d u al stocks or the Budapest stock index (BUX) on the Budapest Stock Exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents As an exception, nonresidents are permitted to trade in futures contracts for ind iv idu al stocks or the BUX on the Budapest Stock Exchange. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. A resident may grant credit to a direct enterprise abroad acquired in accordance w i th Hungarian foreign exchange rules. The ma tu r i ty of such a credit should exceed f ive years; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 HUNGARY To residents from nonresidents otherwise, a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion is requ ired. On January 1, 2000, res iden ts were allowed to grant foreign exchange credits w i th a ma tur i ty of more than one year to nonresidents of OECD member countries. Credits between close relatives are free; in all other cases, a foreign exchange authority authorization is needed, wh ich is granted l ibe ra l ly in the case of long- and medium-term credits and granted exceptionally in the case of short- term credits. For residents, med ium- and long-term f inanc ial credits in foreign exchange are a l lowed. For short-term borrowing, an authorization from the NBH is required. The borrowing may be effected in the form of a bank transfer to an authorized credit ins t i tu t ion in Hungary. The repayment should be made proportionally, i.e., the first year's ins ta l lmen ts may not be higher than the average installment over the entire period. Borrowing in domestic currency is free for resident enterprises; for organizations and private ind iv idua ls, it is subject to a foreign exchange authority permit. Borrowing in domestic currency may be effected only from a convertible fo r int account held by a nonres iden t. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities These transactions are allowed if they are related to liberalized transactions. In all other cases, authorization is needed, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly on a case-by-case basis. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Equ i ty participation in a nonresident enterprise is considered as foreign direct investment and is free if the participation in the share or equity capital or the value of assets of the foreign enterprise is more than 10%. The fo l low ing preconditions should also be met: (1) the laws of the coun try of incorpora t ion shou ld a l low the transfer to Hunga ry of prof i ts and capital in convertible foreign exchange; (2) the resident's l iab i l i ty shou ld not exceed (except in the case of a branch) its share in the enterprise; (3) the res ident shou ld have no customs du ty, tax, pens ion, health insurance, or social security con t r ibu t ion l i a b i l i ty ou t- s tand ing; (4) the resident shou ld not be in bank rup tcy proceedings or u n d er l i q u i d a t i o n, and no such action should have been in i t ia ted against him or her in the year of app l ica t ion or the previous two calendar years; (5) du r ing the period stipulated above, there shou ld be no negative decision against the investor made by the foreign exchange authority; and (6) dur ing the same period, no senior employee of the applicant should have been a senior member of the supervisory committee of an enterprise against wh ich the foreign exchange authority had made a negative decision. If the planned investment does not meet any of the listed criteria, the app l ica t ion w i ll au toma t ica l ly fa ll under the au thor iza t ion procedure. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Real estate a cqu i s i t ion mu st be reported w i t h in e ight days. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval of local mun i c ip al au thor i t ies is requ ired. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Credits between close re la t ives are free. Otherwise, the same regu la t ions app ly as for financial credits. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A resident may donate convertible foreign exchange or currency to a nonresident, provided an authorization of the NBH is granted. A resident may give a g i ft of pecuniary va lue to a nonresident, except for (1) the resident's share or participation in foreign direct investment; (2) the right of ownership in respect of real estate abroad or in Hungary; and (3) securities, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants HUNGARY 419 money market ins t rumen ts, and transferable ins t rumen ts, wh ich may be acqu ired by nonresidents w i th a foreign exchange license. (The above-mentioned operations are liberalized only in the case of close relatives.) A resident may establish an endowment abroad or may jo in a foreign endowment on ly w i th authorization. This p rov i s ion also applies to an assumption of ob l iga t ion serving pub l ic interest. On first leav ing Hungary for any fo re ign coun try, a pr iva te i n d i v i d u al who is en t i t led to emigrate may take the fo l low ing out of the country w i thout the permission of the foreign exchange authority: (1) his or her pecuniary holdings; (2) the currency or foreign exchange or ig ina t ing from the conversion of the domestic payment ins t rumen ts received for the sale of his or her domestic real estate; and (3) the foreign exchange or currency o r ig in a t ing from the conversion of domestic payment instrument(s) deposited w i th a domestic credit ins t i tu t ion in a registered deposit. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad F inanc ial in s t i tu t ions must report all fore ign borrow ing to the NBH. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Short-term lend ing is allowed w i th in the fo l low ing rules: (1) total ou ts tand ing lend ing to nonresidents should not exceed 50% of the total amount of l i ab i l i t i es in foreign exchange less the own capital of the bank in foreign exchange or the amount stipulated in a foreign exchange authority license; and (2) a bank may not have an aggregate lend ing w i th an ind i- v i d u al borrower of more than 25% of its adjusted capital. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, me- d ium- and long-term lending for nonresidents from OECD member countries is free; lend- ing to other nonresidents is subject to case-by-case authorization, wh ich is granted l ibe ra l ly. In the case of purchase of short-term securities w i th an or ig inal ma tu r i ty of less than one year, the ir aggregate amount should not exceed 50% of the total amount of l i a b i l i t i es in foreign exchange less the own capital of the bank in foreign exchange. In that figure, short- term lending should also be included. In the case of purchase of med ium- and long-term securities, the same ru les apply as for residents. Short-term lend ing locally to non res iden ts is allowed w i t h in the framework stipulated above. Coun try r isk ru les prescribe the placement of specific reserves against possible losses on credits extended to problem countries, the list of which is based on the assessment of the NBH and published by the MOF. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange The purchase and issue of locally issued foreign exchange-denominated securities requ ire a pe rm it from the NBH. This license is granted on a case-by-case basis. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The interest paid on reserves generated for foreign currency l iab i l i t ies is 0.5 percentage po int higher than that on reserves generated for fo r int l iab i l i t ies. Credit controls No overdraft fac i l i t ies are allowed in foreign exchange on resident deposit accounts. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Effective J u ly 1, 2000, 50% of commercial bank l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than one year is subject to a system of d i f fe ren t ial reserve requ i remen ts, w i th a re- serve ratio of 11%. Effec t ive J u ly 1, 2001, th is was raised to 100% of comme rc ial bank l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents with ma tur i ty of up to two years. Assets from certain transactions may on ly be placed in nonremunerated nonconve r t ib le fo r int accounts. Credit raised by nonresidents in fo r int may be placed on ly in nonconvertible fo r int accounts. The gross aggregate position is l im i ted to 30% of the bank 's adjusted capital. Banks shou ld adhere to the l im it on a daily basis, wh ich is applied equa l ly to resident and nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 HUNGARY On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The technical reserves and capital of insurance under tak ings may be invested in the fo l low- ing foreign instruments: (1) listed debt ins trumen ts with a maturity of at least one year, issued by a government of an OECD member state; (2) debt ins t rumen ts issued by an un- dertaking of an OECD member state, denominated either in fo r int or foreign currency w i th a maturity of at least one year, provided it complies with foreign exchange regu la t ions; (3) listed equity issued by an under tak ing of an OECD member state, denominated e i ther in fo r int or foreign currency, provided it complies with foreign exchange regu la t ions (a max imum of 5% of funds in support of the mathematical reserves and safety capital may be placed in such instruments); and (4) listed collective inves tment u n i ts denominated in foreign currency, issued by an inves tment (mu tua l) fund of an OECD member state, pro- vided it complies with foreign exchange regulations (a m a x im um of 5% of f u n ds in support of the mathematical reserves and safety capital may be placed in such in s t rumen t s ). In the case of pension funds, a government decree l im i ts the share of foreign inves tment by pension funds in the compulsory second p i l lar to 10% of total assets, r is ing to 30% by 2002, and limits that of other pension funds to 20% of total assets. There are no specific l im i ta t ions on the foreign inves tment of inve s tment (m u t u a l) f u n d s. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Limits (min .) on investment portfolio held locally The mathematical reserves may be invested on ly in domestic secur i t ies. Th i r ty percent of the funds in support of ma thema t ical reserves and safety capital must be invested in certain domestic ins t rumen ts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement January 1. The preannounced rate of crawl against the euro was effected. Resident accounts Capital transactions April 1. The mon th ly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 0.3% from 0.4%. July 1. Resident fund managers were allowed to keep foreign exchange accounts abroad. July 1. The sale or issue by nonresidents or the purchase by residents of co l lec t ive inves t- ment securities was l ibera l ized once a few preconditions are satisfied. Controls on credit operations January 1. Residents were allowed to extend credits with a ma tur i ty of more than one year to nonresidents of OECD member countries. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions January 1. Long- and med ium - te rm lend ing in fore ign exchange to non res iden ts from OECD member coun tr ies became free. July 1. Fifty percent of commercial bank l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents w i th a maturity of less than one year became subject to a system of d ifferen t ial reserve requirements, w i th a reserve ratio of 11 %. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions July 1. One hund red percent of commercial bank l i ab i l i t i es to non res iden ts w i th a m a t u r i ty of up to two years was made subject to a system of d i f fe ren t ial reserve requ i remen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of March 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control U n t il March 28, 2001, the external v a lue of the krona was pegged to a basket of n i ne cur- rencies: the Canad ian dollar, the Danish krone, the euro, the Japanese yen, the Norwegian krone, the pound sterling, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The basket was revised annua l ly on the basis of external trade du r ing the p rev ious year, and the Central Bank of Iceland (CBI) intervened in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate w i th in a ma rg in of f luc tua t ion (on February 14, 2000, the ma rg in of f luc tua t ion was widened to ±9% from ±6%). E f fec t ive March 28, 2001, the CBI abo l ished the marg ins w i t h in wh ich the k rona f luc tu- ated. As a resu l t, the external va lue of the krona is now freely determined; as a result, the exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to the category independen t ly floating from the category pegged exchange rate w i t h in horizontal bands. No. No. Iceland has no organized forward market and the krona has no quoted forward exchange rate. However, forward contracts may be negotiated freely in all currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. No. The M in is try of Commerce (MC) has u l t ima te respons ib i l i ty for imports and, in consulta- tion w i th the CBI, for capital movements and foreign exchange regulation. The MC imple- ments the control on inward foreign direct investment. The CBI licenses the foreign ex- change dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting requirements for statistical purposes and for implementation of control on inward foreign direct investment. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions In comp l iance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, certain restrictions had been imposed on paymen ts and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia; these res tr ic t ions were l i f ted on J u ly 8, 2000, except for weapons and other m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, Iceland imposes trade res t r ic t ions against Iraq. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 ICELAND Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Residents should inform the CBI on opening of bank accounts abroad. However, th is requirement has not been enforced. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. n .r. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must report to the CBI the monthly positions of nonresident accounts. All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible in to foreign currency All accounts in domestic banks mu st be identified by name and iden t i f ica t ion numb e r. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Impor ts of goods and services are free, except when in terna t ional agreements or prov is ions in special legislation prov ide otherwise. Negative list Open general licenses L ive an ima ls and certain agr icu l tural products requ ire health certificates. Imports by tourists and foreign visitors are duty-free w i th in general l im i ts on the total, as well as on ind iv idual merchandise value, and quantitative l im i ts are set on alcohol and tobacco by the customs authorities. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Yes. State import monopo ly Tobacco may be imported on ly under state trad ing arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F in an c ing requirements Documen ta t ion requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 423 Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of military, fisheries, and agricultural products require licenses from the M in is t ry of Foreign Affairs. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The purchase of shares or other equity capital may be affected by laws on foreign investment in Iceland. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt ins t rumen ts in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland un less permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt ins trumen ts in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other au thor i t ies are proh ib i ted from issu ing debt in s t rumen ts in Ice land unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt in s t rumen ts in Iceland un less perm i t ted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regulated by a special law on foreign investment: (1) foreign investment is prohibited in the fisheries and primary fish processing industry, as only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered entities, where foreign owner- ship does not exceed 25%, may fish w i th in the Icelandic f ish ing limit or operate p r ima ry fish processing fac i l i t ies; th is l im it can be extended to 33% if the foreign inves tment in domes t ic en t i t ies does not exceed 5% of the total equ i ty; (2) inves tmen ts by fo re ign gov- e rnmen ts and p u b l ic au tho r i t ies are p roh ib i ted in Iceland; the MC may grant exemptions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 ICELAND from this restriction and the restrictions below, which do not apply to residents of the EEA; (3) there are controls on the ownership of, or right to harness, waterfalls and geothermal energy, where restrictions apply to investment in power production and d is tr ibu t ion companies; (4) investments in domestic a ir l ines may not exceed 49%; and (5) the above and other special laws also stipulate restricted conditions for residency of managers and majority of voting power in holding companies. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The conditions for own ing real estate in Iceland are the fo l low ing: (1) i n d i v i d u al owners must be Icelandic citizens; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be Ice- landic citizens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, with at least 80% owned by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors being Ice land ic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at an- nual meetings. The same cond i t ions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural re- sources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least f ive years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The CBI regulates the net foreign exchange position of the banks. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Por tfo l io investments of pension funds are restricted to listed securities in organized mar- kets w i t h in OECD countries or in other markets approved by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Effective May 17, 2000, foreign exchange exposure of pension funds is limited to 50% of their total assets. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement February 14. The margin of fluctuation around the central rate of the krona was widened to ±9% from ±6%. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 8. Restrictions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l if ted, except for weapons and other military equ ipmen t. Capital transactions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors May 1n. Foreign exchange exposure of pension funds became limited to 50% of their total assets. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement March 28. The fluctuation margins for the krona were abolished. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of India is the Ind ian rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of Ind ia (RBI) purchases and sells spot and fo rwa rd dollars from and to authorized dealers (ADs) in the in te rbank market at the market exchange rate. Hence, e f fec t ive J anu a ry 1, 2000, the exchange rate system of Ind ia was reclassified to the category managed f loa t ing with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly f loa t ing. No. No. ADs are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. Forward purchases or sales of fo re ign currenc ies against rupees w i th banks abroad are proh ib i ted. The RBI may enter into swap transactions w i th ADs, under w h i ch it buys or sells spot dollars and sells or buys forward do l la rs for ma tu r i t ies ava i lab le in the market. ADs are allowed to offer a forward cover fac i l i ty to foreign in s t i tu t ional investors (F I I) to the extent of the va lue of t h e ir inves tment in respect of th e ir fresh equ i ty inv e s tm en ts in Ind ia, and to cover the appreciation in the market va lue of th e ir ex is t ing inv e s tm ent in India. ADs are also pe rm i t ted to prov ide forward exchange cover to F I Is to the extent of 15% of th e ir ou ts tand ing equ i ty inves tment as of the close of business on March 31, 1999, con- verted to dollars at the rate of Rs 42.43 per US$1 p lus the increase in market va lue / in f low after that date. Existing forward contracts booked in accordance w i th earlier ins truc t ions were allowed to continue. Nonresident Ind ians (NRIs) and overseas corporate bodies (OCBs) may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge the amount of d iv idend due to them or the balances held in their foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts or nonresident external accounts. They are also e l ig ib le to have forward cover in respect of the ir inves tmen ts in por tfo l io inves tment schemes along the lines of the fac i l i ty for FIIs described above. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGCI) provides protection against exchange f luc tua t ion w i th respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract. Exchange cover is offered in Au s t ra l ian do l lars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds s ter l ing, Swiss francs, U .A .E. d irhams, and U .S. do l la rs. For paymen ts spec if ied in o ther conve r t ib le cu r renc ies, cover is prov ided at the d i s c r e t ion of the ECGC I. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are d iv ided into two groups: (1) member countries of the ACU (except Bhutan and Nepal) and (2) the external group (all other coun- tries). In the f irst group, all paymen ts on account of e l ig ib le cu r rent in te rna t ional transac- tions, except paymen ts re la t ing to trave l, mu st be settled th rough the ACU a r rangemen t. In other cases, paymen ts may be settled in any perm i t ted cu r rency. Expor t- import t ransac t ions f inanced out of loans f rom in te rna t ional f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions are settled ou t s ide the ACU mechanism. Settlements of trade are made through the ACU dollar accounts, wh ich are 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 INDIA Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency rep len ished th rough the RBI. Payments to countries in the second group may be made in Ind i an rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted cur- rency, and receipts from these coun tr ies may be obtained in Ind ian rupees from accounts of a bank situated in any of these countries or in any permitted currency. However, special ru les may apply w i th respect to exports under lines of credit extended by the government of Ind ia to the governmen ts of certain foreign countries. n.a. n.a. Ind ia is a member of the ACU. A l though Bhu tan and Nepal are members of the ACU, trade between Ind ia and Bhutan and Ind ia and Nepal is settled outside the ACU mechanism. Nepal is permitted to import from Ind ia against payment in freely convertible currency, in addition to the existing system of payment in Ind ian rupees. Transactions between all other ACU member countries are settled through ACU dollar accounts. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the general policy laid down by the government, in consultation with the RBI. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to ADs. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are is- sued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. The RBI is responsible for approving appli- cations for foreign currency loans under a US$5 m i l l ion scheme and for approving applications for short-term loans and credits with maturities of less than three years. The RBI also considers applications for foreign currency loans under a US$100 m i l l i on scheme. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell ,gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India, as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Apart from a few agencies authorized by tjie government, 18 banks are authorized by the RBI to import gold for sale in the domestic market. The export of personal jewelry by travelers is regulated under the Ministry of Commerce's export and import policy baggage rules. Other rules as regards the export and import of gold are spelled out in the Export and Import Policy 2000-2003. In general, the exportation of rupee notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is prohib- ited. Exports of rupee notes to Bhutan or Nepal in denominations higher than Rs 100 are also prohibited. However, resident Ind ians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 5,000 a person at any one t ime to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal when going abroad on a temporary v is i t. An authorized person (AP) may send out of India foreign currency acquired in the normal course of business. Any person may take out foreign exchange obtained from an AP and any unspent foreign currency owned or brought in dur ing a previous visit. Any non-Ind ian resident person may take out unspent foreign exchange not exceeding the amount brought in (the amount must be declared if it exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted INDIA 427 The importation of rupee notes and coins is proh ib i ted. However, any person may b r ing in rupee notes (other than notes of denom ina t ions larger than Rs 100) from Bhu tan and Nepa l. Ind ian travelers may b r ing in up to Rs 5,000 a person if they took out th is amount when trave l ing abroad on a temporary v is i t. Foreign currency notes may be brought in w i thout l im i t, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon a r r ival if the va lue of foreign notes, coins, and t rave le r 's checks exceeds US$10,000 or its equ iv a l ent and/or if the aggregate v a lue of foreign currency notes brought in at any one t ime exceeds US$5,000 or its equ iva len t. Resident Accounts The accounts of Ind ians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Ind ian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese f irms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as res ident ac- counts. However, residents of Nepal must obtain the ir foreign exchange requ i remen ts from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Approval of the RBI is required for the opening of foreign currency accounts, both held domestically or abroad, except for those covered by general permission granted by the RBI. Exporters may open Export Earners' Foreign Cu r rency (EEFC) ac- counts. These accounts are to be held only in noninterest-bearing accounts, and no cred it fac i l i ty, be it funded or nonfunded, may be made available against the balances. These ac- counts may be used to (1) open offices abroad and to meet the expenses of these offices; and (2) make inves tmen ts from the account balance in overseas jo int ven tu res up to the l im it of US$50 m i l l ion w i t h in a five-year span w i thout reference to the RBI. I n d i v i d u a ls residing in Ind ia may open foreign currency accounts designated as resident fore ign cur- rency (RFC) accounts w i th foreign exchange from pensions or other paymen ts from over- seas emp loyers or w i th other receipts —such as g if ts or inher i tances — that are pe rm i t ted under regulations. The balances held in such accounts may be used freely outside Ind ia. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts 1. FCNR accounts denominated in dollars, deutsche marks, euros, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian na t iona l i ty or o r ig in and by overseas companies as specified above. These accounts may be opened on ly in the form of term deposits w i th a m i n im um maturity of one year and a max imum ma tu r i ty of three years. All debits and credits permitted in respect of nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts are pe rm iss ib le in respect of these accounts as we l l. Balances may be repatriated at any t ime w i thout reference to the RB I. ADs are allowed to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of d i f fe rent persons maintained w i th the same AD or other ADs for any purpose, subject to certain conditions. The current FCNR accounts operate in the same m ann er as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issu ing bank (not the RBI) bears the exchange r i sk. 2. Foreign embassies, m iss ions, and d ip loma ts are perm i t ted to open fo re ign cu r rency accounts w i th ADs w i thout the approval of the RBI, subject to certain conditions. Ac- counts related to all foreign countries other than Bhutan and Nepal are treated as non res ident accounts. App roval requ ired No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 INDIA Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required 1. Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited w i th (i) the proceeds of remittances received in any perm i t ted currency from abroad th rough no rmal bank ing channels, balances sold by the account ho lder in any permitted currency d u r i ng his or her visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and ( i i) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. ADs may debit ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, inc lud ing investments in Ind ia that are covered by RBI regulations. ADs may also perm it transfers abroad of cu r rent income earned w i th in Ind ia by the account holder, once the applicable taxes have been paid. 2. NRER accounts may be opened for NR Is and nonresident persons of Ind i an o r ig in (PIOs), or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresident PIOs. In addition to ADs ho ld ing licenses under the Foreign Exchange Man- agement Act (FEMA), some state cooperative banks, certain urban cooperative banks, and scheduled commercial banks not ho ld ing such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, subject to certain conditions. Such ac- counts may also be opened for eligible persons du r ing temporary visits to Ind ia against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited w i th (i) new funds remitted through bank ing channels from any coun t ry; ( i i) the proceeds of foreign currency trave ler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder; ( i i i) foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder w h i le in India; (iv) income from authorized investments; and (v) the transfer of funds from other NRER or FCNR accounts. ADs are allowed to transfer funds freely between NRER accounts of d i f- ferent persons he ld w i th the same AD or d ifferent ADs. The accounts may be debited (i) for disbursement in Ind ia and for transfers abroad; and (ii) for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Investments in the shares of Ind ian companies, in partnership f i rms and the like, or in immovable property may be made, pro- vided that such an investment or purchase is covered by FEMA regulations or that general or special permission has been granted by the RBI. Interest on deposits in non res ident ex- ternal accounts in any bank in India is exempt from personal income tax, although j u r i d i c al persons are not entitled to th is exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by na tural persons are exempt from wealth tax; g if ts to close relatives in Ind ia from the balances in these accounts are exempt from g i ft tax. 3. D ip loma t ic missions, the ir personnel and f am i ly members may open rupee accounts w i th ADs. 4. NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs that are at least 60% owned, d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly, by NR I s, and overseas trusts in wh ich at least 60% of the interest is irrevocably held by such persons, are permitted to maintain nonresident (external) accounts. Balances in such accounts are freely convertible into foreign currency. Opening such accounts in the name of Pakistan or Bangladesh nationals, though of Ind ian or ig in, requires RBI approval. Two types of nonconve r t ib le currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents, conversion from wh ich requ ires RBI approval: 1. There is the Nonres ident Special Rupee account for NR Is and PIOs who wou ld vo lun ta r- ily under take not to seek repatriation of f u n ds he ld in such accounts and in teres t / income accrued thereon. These accounts have the same restrictions and fac i l i t ies as those applicable to domestic resident accounts. 2. Nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by any nonresident person (except Pakistan and Bangladesh nationals). These accounts may be opened w i th funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad and, in the case of NR Is and OCBs, w i th funds transferred from ex is t ing NRER or FCNR accounts. The f u n ds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any time. The transfer abroad of accruing interest is permitted. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts INDIA 429 n.a. n.a. E f fec t ive A p r il 1, 2000, imports of capital goods were l ibe ra l ized. The importation of the fo l low ing is restricted: (1) certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; (2) safety, security, and related items; (3) seeds, plants, and an ima ls; (4) insecticides and pesticides; (5) drugs and Pharmaceuticals; (6) chemicals and a l l ied items re la t ing to the small-scale sector; and (7) some consumer goods and certain other items. Importation is prohibited of tallow, fat and/or oils rendered or unrendered of any an imal o r ig in, an imal rennet, w i ld an ima ls ( in c lud ing the ir parts and products), and ivory. Impor ts from Iraq are also p roh ib i ted. On May 26, 2000, temporary interest surcharges were reimposed on import f inance. These surcharges were w i thd r awn on Janua ry 6, 2001. The importation of certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, ed ib le and noned ib le oils, seeds, and cereals is channeled through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Ind ian Oil Corporation Ltd., M ine ra ls and Metals Trading Corporation of I n d ia Ltd., State Trading Corporation of I n d ia Ltd., and the Food Corporation of Ind i a. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Ind ian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the RBI are allowed a period of up to 15 months to realize export proceeds. Exporters are requ ired to obtain perm iss ion from the RBI through ADs should the export va lue not be realized w i th in the prescribed period. The RBI also adm in is ters a scheme under wh ich eng inee r ing goods (capital goods and con- sumer durab les) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the f u ll export va lue is paid in in s ta l lmen ts over more than six months. Exporters are perm i t ted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in fore ign currency accounts w i th banks in Ind ia. In the case of 100% export-oriented businesses, those in export processing zones, and those in hardware/software technology parks, up to 70% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Corporate exporters are perm i t ted to extend trade-related advances to their importer clients out of their EEFC accounts up to US$3 m i l l i on for each EEFC account w i thout ob ta in ing RBI approval. ADs are perm i t ted to allow u t i l iza t ion of funds held in EEFC accounts for making payments for current and capital transactions that are pe rm iss ib le und er FEMA regulations. F inan c ing requirements Documentat ion requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are requ i red for exports of m in e r al ores and concentrates, and chemicals, i n c l u d- ing those specified in the UN Convention on Chemical Weapons as detailed in the Export- Import Policy 2002-2003. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Residents may obtain foreign exchange for bona fide current account transactions w i th some exceptions, such as 11 items related to pub l ic sector expenses and other items listed in th is section. Trade-related payments In fo rm a t ion is not ava i lab le on payments of adm in i s t ra t ive expenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 INDIA Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittances are allowed, subject to certain conditions, provided that all current taxes and other l i a b i l i t i es have been cleared. The RBI allows branches of foreign companies operating in Ind ia to remit profits to the ir head offices w i thout the pr ior approval of the RBI. Foreign banks do not need RBI ap- proval for remittances of profits (net of taxes) earned in the no rmal course of business w i th the ir head offices. The remittance is subject to comp l iance w i th the Bank ing Act and RBI directives. Yes. Yes. Travel-related expenses over the quantitative l im i ts require RBI approval. Foreign exchange is not made ava i lab le for travel to Bhu tan or Nepal or for transactions w i th residents of these coun tr ies. Indicative limits/bona fide test ADs may release fore ign exchange in certain cases beyond ind ica t ive l im i t s. Personal payments Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Sixteen items related to personal expenses are subject to qu an t i t a t ive l im i t s, beyond wh ich RBI approval is required. ADs have the power to release fore ign exchange in l i ne w i th estimates of overseas med ical costs. ADs may also release foreign exchange for higher studies abroad on the basis of cost estimates from the u n i v e r s i ty or in s t i tu t ion abroad. ADs may rem it up to US$5,000 a year for ma in tenance of a res iden t 's dependents abroad. Foreign workers, except those from Pakistan, are permitted to make reasonable remittances to t h e ir own countries to pay insurance p rem iums, to support the ir fam i l ies, and for other expenses. ADs may rem it up to 75% of the net income of a foreign worker, provided that the worker ho lds a v a l id emp loyment visa. ADs may also allow such remittances in excess of 75% of net income, prov ided the rem i t tance meets certain cond i t ions and the wo rke r 's fam i ly lives abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Persons go ing abroad for any purpose (except for emp loyment or em ig ra t ion) may use in t e rn a t ion al cred it cards (ICCs) for all purposes, i n c l u d i ng for the purchase of articles for personal use w i t h in their en t i t lement of foreign exchange. The basic travel quota may also be obtained through the use of credit cards. The use of ICCs is allowed for imports of software th rough the In terne t. Other paymen ts Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requ i remen ts Up to 50% of receipts may be retained in foreign currency accounts w i th banks in I n d i a. In the case of export-oriented un i ts, un i ts created in export processing zones, software technology parks, or e lec tron ic ma in tenance technology parks, 70% of remittances may be obtained from these accounts. Res tr ic t ions on use of funds n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 431 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents FIIs are perm i t ted to make inves tmen ts in all securities traded on the p r im a ry and secon- dary markets, i n c l u d i ng equ i ty and other securities, and in in s t rumen ts of companies listed or to be listed on the stock exchanges in India. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated gov- ernment securities, either on behalf of clients or by using proprietary funds. FIIs are re- qu ired to register i n i t i a l ly w i th the Securities and Exchange Board of I n d ia (SEBI) and w i th the RBI. For F I Is registered for inves tmen ts in equities, there is no con trol on the v a l ue of th e ir investments in the p r ima ry and secondary markets, but inves tmen ts in debt in s t ru- ments may not exceed 30% of the total investment. However, FIIs may set up separately 100% debt funds, wh ich may invest the ir portfolio in debt instruments w i t h in the overall approved debt ce i l ing. Portfolio investments in the primary or secondary markets are subject to a ce i l ing of 10% of the issued share capital for ind iv idu al F II ho ld ings and 24% ( th is c e i l ing may be raised to 49%, provided the general meeting of the company passes a special reso lu t ion) of issued share capital for the total ho ld ings of all registered F I Is in any one company, w i th the exception of (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depositary receipts (GDRs), and conve r t ib les in the eu roma rke t. The ind iv idu al ce i l ing for NRIs, OCBs, and PIOs is 5% of the pa id-up capital, and the ir aggregate inve s tment ce i l ings are 10% of the pa id -up share capital of a company. In the case of compan ies listed on the stock exchange, the c e i l ing may be raised to 24% of pa id- up capital by passing a special reso lu t ion in the general meeting. Non res iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to issue secur i t ies in the local ma rke t. In the case of secur i- ties of Ind ian companies he ld by nonresidents, transfers to a resident, o ther than by sale on the stock exchange, requires RBI permission. Transfers of sale proceeds are perm i t ted, subject to tax, provided no controls were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds wh i le approving the o r ig inal inves tmen t. Transfers between two nonres iden ts do not requ i re per- m iss ion from the RBI, except where the rec ip ient has a f inanc ial or techn ical co l labora t ion in the same or a related f ie ld as the company whose shares are being transferred. Transfers from NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs to nonresidents other than NRIs, PIOs, or OCBs requ ire RBI approval. RBI permission is required for acquiring, ho ld ing, or disposing of any fore ign security. In the case of a sale of fore ign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to I n d ia is requ i red, un less otherwise spec if ied. General perm iss ion has been granted by the RBI to res iden ts to ho ld, own, transfer, or invest in fo re ign currency or fo re ign secur i t ies ou ts ide I n d ia if the currency or security was acquired or he ld by the person wh i le res id ing outside Ind ia, was received through an inheritance or as a g i ft from a person who was res id ing outside Ind ia, or was acqu i red d u r i ng the pre-zero per iod (i.e., p r ior to J u ly 8, 1947). The RBI also con- siders app l ica t ions from res ident employees of fo re ign compan ies and t h e ir j o i nt v en tu r es or who l ly owned subs id iar ies, in wh i ch the fore ign company ho lds not less than 51% equ i ty, for remittances of up to the equ iva lent of US$20,000 an employee a year, for acqu i s i t ion of shares of the fo re ign company, subject to certain cond i t ions. S im i l a r l y, app l ica t ions are cons idered from employees of Ind ian software compan ies for rem i t tances of the equ iv a l ent of US$10,000 in a f ive-year period for a c q u i r i ng shares in overseas j o i nt ven tu res or who l ly owned subsidiaries of Ind ian companies, subject to certain cond i t ions. The RBI also permits employees of Ind ian software companies to purchase fore ign secur i t ies u n d er the Ame r ican depositary receipt (ADR) and GDR l i n k ed stock option schemes, p rov ided that the cons idera t ion for purchase does not exceed the e q u i v a l e nt of US$50,000 in a f ive -year pe r iod. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 INDIA Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NRIs and OCBs (predom inan t ly those at least 60% owned by NR Is and nonresident PIOs) are a l lowed to invest in money market m u t u al f u n ds floated by commerc ial banks and pub- l ic or p r iva te sector f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns w i th au tho r iza t ion f rom the RBI or the SEBI on a non repa t r ia t ion basis. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transac t ions r equ i re RBI approva l. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not pe rm i t ted to purchase such i n s t r um e n ts abroad w i t h o ut the a u t h o r i z a t i on of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not pe rm i t ted. On co l lec t ive investment securities Res ident compan ies are not pe rm i t ted to issue secu r i t ies to NR Is or OCBs w i t h o ut the approval of the RBI. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions, when made by NR Is or OCBs, do not requ ire the p r ior approval of the RB I. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The i s su ing of co l lec t ive inve s tment secu r i t ies by non re s iden ts on local marke ts in I n d ia is not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the RBI; the Un it Trust of Ind ia has been granted perm iss ion for i s su ing certain secu r i t ies abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Resident companies are not permitted to issue rupee-based der iva t ives and other in s t rum en ts in Ind i a. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts These transac t ions are not a l lowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs are a l lowed to purchase hedge in s t rumen ts for corporate c l ien ts and for t h e ir own asse t / l iab i l i ty managemen t. They are also a l lowed to hedge price exposures on commod i- ties for this purpose. Contract length is restricted to six months, whereafter RBI clearance is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re the perm iss ion of the RBI. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A commercial credit of up to six mon ths is a l lowed for exports on documen ts-aga ins t- acceptance terms. Contracts for exports invo lv ing payments to be realized beyond the nor- mal per iod of six mon ths are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are pe rm i t- ted, depend ing on the credit terms offered, the commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. Th is app l ies for tu rnkey, construction, and service contracts under taken by I n d i an exporters on credit terms. Und er the Buye r 's Credit Scheme, the Expo r t - Impo rt Bank (EXIM Bank) offers credits to foreign buyers in connection w i th the export of capital goods and tu rnk ey projects in I n d ia in pa r t ic ipa t ion w i th commerc ial banks in I n d i a. The EXIM Bank considers the creditworthiness, standing, and f inanc ial position of the overseas borrower; the econom ic v i a b i l i ty of the project; the s tand ing of the I n d i an exporter; and so for th. Proposals for ra i s ing fo re ign cu r rency loans and c red i t s —buye r 's credits and s u p p l i e r 's credits or lines of credit by firms, companies, or lend ing ins t i tu t ions —for f inanc ing imports of goods and services for a period of more than six mon ths, but less than three years, are considered by the RBI on terms and cond i t ions in connection w i th the terms offered in overseas markets. Exporters are allowed to raise external commercial f inanc ing of up to three t imes t h e ir average a n n u al fo re ign exchange ea rn ings d u r i ng the p rev ious th ree years, subject to a m ax imum of US$200 m i l l i on or the equ iva lent w i th a m i n i m um average ma tu r- i ty of three years w i t h o ut end-use res t r ic t ions (i.e., general corporate ob jec t ives, e x c l u d i ng inv e s tm ent in stock or in real estate). Ex te rnal comme rc ial bo r row ing g u i d e l i n es for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financial credits INDIA 433 exporters and sh ipp ing companies were eased, f a c i l i t a t i ng overseas bo r row ing by e l i g i b le corporations. An Ind ian entity may lend in foreign exchange to its who l ly owned subsidiary abroad. An Ind i an exporter may lend up to US$3 m i l l i on or the e q u i v a l e nt from the f u n ds he ld in an EEFC account for trade-related purposes to an overseas importing customer against a bank guarantee. Other transactions requ i re p r ior pe rm iss ion from the RB I. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Prepayment of such loans and credits, and paymen ts of interest and other charges on such loans may be made by ADs w i th general pe rm i s s ion of the RBI. Bo r row ing proposals for loans of less than three years and those f a l l i ng und er the US$5 m i l l i on and US$10 m i l l i on schemes must be cleared by the RBI. External bo r row ing f a l l i ng outside these schemes requ ires gove rnment approval. Ex ternal bo r row ing is perm i t ted for exp end i tu r es related to roads, bridges, ports, indu s t r ial parks, and urban in f ras t ruc tu re (water supp ly, san i ta t ion, and sewerage projects). In add i t ion to the p rev iou s ly designated sectors, power, ra i lway s, te lecommun ica t ions, and license fee paymen ts are also approved uses of external borrow- ing. Ho ld ing companies and promoters may raise ex ternal bo r row ing up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$200 m i l l ion to finance equity investment in a subsidiary company imp l em en t ing infras truc ture projects. Corporate borrowers may raise long- term resources w i th average maturities of 8 and 16 years up to US$200 m i l l i on and US$400 m i l l i o n, respectively, and use the f u n ds w i thout any end-use res tr ic t ions (i.e., general corporate ob jec t ives), e x c l u d i ng investments in the stock market and real estate. Corporate borrowers are pe rm i t ted to raise ex ternal bo r row ing to acqu i re sh ips and vessels from I n d i an sh ipyards. Corporate borrowers who had raised f u n ds for the impo rt of cap i tal goods and services th rough bonds, f loa t ing rate notes, or synd ica ted loans are p e rm i t t ed to rem it f u n ds into Ind ia and deploy them, exc lud ing inves tmen ts in the stock ma rket or in real estate, u n t il the ir actual import of capital goods and services takes place or up to one year, wh ichever is less. In case borrowers decide to dep loy the f u n ds abroad u n t il the ap- proved end-use r equ i r em ent arises, they are e l ig ib le to do so in l i ne w i th RBI g u i d e l i n e s. Borrowing l im i ts for te lecommun ica t ions projects are f lex ib le, and an increase f rom the present 25% to 50% of the project cost is a l lowed. The ADs are allowed to g ive performance bonds or guarantees in favor of overseas buye rs in connection with bona fide exports from India, as we ll as guarantees in the ord inary course of business in respect of m i s s ing documen ts, au then t ic i ty of signatures, and other similar purposes. The RBI has granted general permission to agents of foreign sh ipp ing and a i r l ine companies to g ive guarantees on beha lf of the ir companies in respect of any debt or other obligation —such as income tax, customs, or post—to any central or state government agency in Ind i a. The RBI has pe rm i t ted ADs to grant loans to res iden ts against guarantees f rom non re s i- dents, subject, among other th ings, to the cond i t ion that no d i rect or i n d i r e ct p aym ent is made abroad by way of guarantee, comm iss ion, or otherwise. Ind i an compan ies a cqu i r ing fo re ign compan ies or inv e s t ing d i rec t ly abroad in j o i nt ven- tures or who l ly owned subsidiaries may invest up to the equ iva lent of US$50 m i l l i on a year th rough the au toma t ic route. RBI approval is requ i red for inves tmen ts exceed ing t h is ce i l ing. Companies may invest 100% of the proceeds of the ir ADR and AGR issues for a cqu i s i t ion of fo re ign compan ies and d i rect inve s tment in j o i nt v en tu r es and w h o l ly owned subsidiaries. Ind ian compan ies inves t ing in My anm ar and South Asian Association for Reg ional Cooperation coun t r ies are allowed the equ iva lent of an add i t ional US$25 m i l l i on a year under the automatic route. This route is not available for investments in Pakistan. In respect of rupee inve s tmen ts in Bhu t an and Nepal u n d er the au toma t ic rou te, the a n n u al l im it is Rs 3.5 b i l l i o n. Par tnersh ip f i rms that p rov ide certain specified professional services, such as chartered ac- coun tancy, legal services, hea l th care services, in fo rma t ion technology, and en te r ta inment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 INDIA software-related services are permitted to invest abroad in foreign concerns in the same l ine of activity up to the equ iva lent of US$1 m i l l ion under the automatic route. Such investments exceeding th is ce i l ing requ ire RBI approval. Any Ind ian company that has issued ADRs or GDRs may acquire shares of fore ign com- panies engaged in the same area of core activity up to the equ iva lent of US$100 m i l l i on or ten times th e ir annual exports, wh ichever is h ighe r. Ind i an companies may issue up to 100% of equ i ty to nonresidents under the au toma t ic rou te in all sectors, except for 13 i tems that requ i re the approval of the Foreign Inves tment Promotion Board (FIPB) and for another seven items where less than 100% is allowed. There are other exclusions, such as indu s t r ial l icens ing and locational po l ic ies. Foreign direct inves tment is permitted in trad ing companies. Trading companies mu st be registered w i th the M in is try of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of the ir status as export, trading, star trading, or super star t rad ing house before app ly ing to the RBI for re- mittances or d iv idends. The automatic route pe rm i ts foreign inves tment of up to 51% of the paid-in capital of such Indian companies. App l ica t ions for inves tment in areas that do not fa ll w i th in the automatic route but that are covered by the foreign inves tment policy are approved by the FIPB. Such inves tmen ts may be approved for up to 100% of capital on a case-by-case basis. The M in is t ry of Indus t ry is the re levant agency for all issues related to foreign direct inves tmen t, in c lud ing approvals. General perm iss ion has also been granted to SEBI-registered foreign ven ture capital inves- tors to invest in an Ind ian venture capital undertaking or a ven ture capital fund. NR Is or PIOs may invest freely in any pub l ic or pr iva te l im i ted company or in any partner- sh ip or proprietary concern engaged in any activity except ag r icu l tu ral or p lan ta t ion activi- ties and real estate (exc lud ing real estate development, such as construction of houses, etc.), provided (1) f u n ds for investment are either remitted from abroad through no rmal bank ing channe ls or drawn from the ir nonres ident accounts; (2) repatriation of the capital invested w i ll not be requested; and (3) overall l im i ts on holdings of shares and convertible deben tures bought through the stock exchange by NR Is (see be low) are adhered to. OCBs, societies, and par tnersh ip firms of wh ich at least 60% is owned by NR Is or PIOs and overseas trusts in w h i ch at least 60% of the benef ic ial interest is irrevocably he ld by NR Is are also a l lowed to invest in any p u b l ic or p r iva te l im i ted company, in accordance w i th the above p rov is ions. NR Is and OCBs, as defined above, may use f u n ds derived from fresh remittances or he ld in th e ir nonres ident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make po r t fo l io inves tmen ts w i th repatriation benefits of up to 5% of the capital, prov ided that the ir total ho ld ings of shares and conver t ib le debentures he ld on e i ther a repatriable or non repa t r iab le basis by all nonres ident investors do not exceed 10% (extendable to 24% if the general meeting of the inves t ing company passes a special resolution) of the pa id -up capital of the company or of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company; (2) invest freely in na t ional savings certificates w i th f u ll repa tr ia t ion benefits. Existing jo in t -ven tu re companies may raise the ratio of foreign equ i ty shares to prescribed percentages of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign investor; and (3) invest on a nonrepa tr iab le basis in money market mu tual funds (on ly NRIs and OCBs), subject to RBI approval. Shares may be sold freely on the stock exchange; however, other sales of shares, of securi- ties, or of immovab le property requ ire approval of the RBI. Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is generally permitted, provided no cond i t ion of nonrepa tr ia t ion was imposed when approving the original investment. Inward direct inves tment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions requ i re the perm iss ion of the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents A person resident in Ind ia may hold, own, or transfer any immovable property outside In- d ia, provided that such property was acqu ired wh i le the person was resident ou ts ide I n d ia or it was obtained through an inher i tance or as a g i f t. They are also free to dispose of such property or acqu ire new property from the sale proceeds of such property. Res iden ts may buy immovab le property abroad us ing RFC accounts. Purchase locally by nonresidents NR Is and OCBs (p redom inan t ly those owned by NR I s) may invest in companies en- gaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.); up to 100% of new ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 435 inves tmen ts may be requ i red to be locked in for a period of three years for d i s inve s tmen t. Af ter three years, remittances of d is inves tment w i ll be allowed up to the original invest- ment in fore ign exchange. In the cases of OCBs, prof i ts may be repatriated up to 16%. Repa t r ia t ion of after-tax sales proceeds is generally perm i t ted by the RBI, p rov ided no cond i t ion of nonrepa tr ia t ion was imposed on the or ig inal inves tmen t. APs may p e rm it the repatriation of sale proceeds by NRIs and OCBs, provided the property was sold three years after its acqu is i t ion and that the remittances do not exceed the amount b rought in to purchase the property. ADs may lend to NRIs in rupees to purchase immovab le property, shares for personal business, or mortgages. Other transactions requ ire the approval of the RB I. These transactions require the approval of the RBI. NR Is are perm i t ted to grant loans on a non repa t r ia t ion basis to residents for a period not exceeding three years and w i th an interest rate not exceeding the bank rate by more than 2%. ADs are allowed to perm it remittances of gifts and donations up to the equ iva lent of US$5,000 a year by residents. Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transac t ions r equ i re the approval of the RB I. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Remittances of ea rn ings from sweepstakes, betting, and lotteries are not pe rm i t ted. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Yes. Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Borrow ing is sub ject to approval by the government, the MOF, and the Department of Economic Affairs. ADs may avail themselves of loans, overdrafts, and other types of fund- based credit fac i l i t ies from the ir overseas branches and correspondents of up to 15% of the ir un impa i red Tier I capital or the equ iva lent of US$10 m i l l i o n, wh ichever is h ighe r. Loans or overdrafts in excess of this l im it may be obtained without prior approval from the RBI solely for the purpose of rep len ish ing the dealers' rupee resources in Ind ia. Repayment of such bo r row ing requires prior approval from the RBI, wh ich may be accorded on ly when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the RBI or any other bank or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. There are no controls on ADs m a in t a in ing accounts abroad. Sh ipp ing and a i r l i ne companies incorporated in Ind ia are allowed to open foreign currency accounts to operate the ir busi- ness. In all other cases, specific permission by the RBI is requ ired. The RBI has granted general perm iss ion to certain categories of persons to maintain foreign currency accounts abroad for specific purposes, subject to certain conditions. L end ing is sub ject to RBI approval on a case-by-case basis and at a l im it of the equ iv a l ent of US$10 m i l l i o n. However, ADs have been perm i t ted to invest th e ir temporary s u r p l us funds in foreign treasury b i l ls and make deposits w i th banks abroad, subject to a l im it of 15% of t h e ir Tier I capital or the equ iv a l ent of US$10 m i l l i o n, wh ichever is h ighe r. Banks may lend to residents to meet bona f ide foreign exchange requ i remen ts toward p resh ipment credit in fore ign currency for f inanc ing domestic inputs. Banks may also use the ir FCNR deposit resources to grant loans to residents for their bona fide foreign cu r rency requ i remen ts. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange No scheme is in place a l low ing for these transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 INDIA Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Wh i le interest rates on resident deposits for maturities of over 15 days have been com- pletely deregulated, interest rates on FCNR (banks) are subject to a ceiling of 50 basis points over the LIBOR or the swap rate for the corresponding ma tu r i ty. Interest rates on nonres ident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit schemes are deregulated for all maturities. Ex- ternal commercial borrowings for project financing are allowed spreads of up to 350 basis points above LIBOR and U.S. treasury b i l l s. Corporate entities are also allowed to raise 50% of the perm iss ib le debt in the form of subordinated debt at a h igher interest rate. At present, all non res ident deposits, in both local and foreign currency, are exempted from cash reserve requ i remen ts and statutory l i q u i d i ty ratios. However, such deposits are in- cluded in the base net demand and t ime l iab i l i t ies for the maintenance of the statutory m i n im um cash reserve requirement of 3% and the statutory l iqu id i ty ratio of 25%. Banks are required to maintain on an ongoing basis Tier I capital at 5% of the open position l i m it approved by the RBI, and the overa ll open position l im it shou ld have a reasonable re la t ion to the capital of the bank. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement January I. The exchange rate system of Ind ia was reclassified to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly f loa t ing. Imports and import payments April I. Imports of cap i tal goods were l ibe ra l ized. May 26. Temporary interest surcharges were reimposed on import f inance. Imports and import payments January 6. The temporary interest surcharges on import f inance were w i t h d r aw n. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Indonesia is the Indones ian rup iah. Two commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is de term ined free ly in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Forward foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents are l im i ted to $5 m i l l i on for each bank and for each customer. These restrictions do not apply to trade- and investment-related transactions (e.g., equ i ty participation, purchase of securities, and lend ing). Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements No. n.a. n.a. Indonesia is a member of the ASEAN. Barter agreements and open accounts There are countertrade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored construction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 m i l l i o n. Adm in i s tra t ion of control The Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the au thor i ty to ins t i tu te regu la t ions regarding commercial offshore borrowing. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Restrictions against countries on wh ich the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Restrictions against Israel were removed in two steps, effective February 1, 2000, and J u ne 21 ,2000. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on external trade Travelers may free ly take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemora t ive gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver co ins issued in October 1974; amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts requ i re the p r ior approval of the Bank Indonesia (BI). Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of R p 2 5 p e r $ l. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers may freely take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 5 m i l l ion a person. For amoun ts in excess of th is l im it and up to Rp 10 m i l l i o n, a declaration must be made to customs officials, wh i le for amounts exceeding Rp 10 m i l l i o n, the pr ior approval of BI is required in addition to the customs declaration. Travelers may b r ing in Indones ian notes and coins up to Rp 5 m i l l i on a person. For the repatriation of amoun ts in excess of th is amount l im i t, the same cond i t ions apply as for exports. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. He ld domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency On ly check ing and t ime deposit accounts are permitted. Yes. n .a. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ i red Nonresident Accounts Yes. On ly check ing and t ime deposit accounts are perm i t ted. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Requirements in general are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. Exporters, however, requ ire banks to guarantee a 100% face va lue of red-clause LCs and advance payments. Cement/asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric l ight bu lbs are subject to qua l i ty control. Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts Yes. Letters of cred it LCs may be issued by foreign exchange banks in the form of sight or usance LCs. Payment settlement under usance LCs should not be more than 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Taxes collected through the exchange system State impo rt monopo ly INDONESIA 439 Imports from countries against wh ich the United Nations has imposed a trade embargo are p roh ib i ted, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain prod- ucts. Secondhand engines, however, and the ir parts and other capital goods may be im- ported by indu s t r ial f i rms for their own use or for the recond i t ion ing of their indus try, in accordance w i th the gu ide l ines of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOT). Certain cate- gories of ag r icu l tu ral imports, i n c l u d i ng foods tuffs, beverages, and f ru i t s, may be imported on ly by registered importers designated by the MOT. The procurement policies of compa- n ies approved for the importation of f r u i t, a lcoho l ic beverages, and ch icken are eva lua ted annua l ly by the government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized importers that includes on ly Indonesian nationals, al- though foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for the ir own projects. A l though all impor ts in to Indones ia are subject to l icens ing requ iremen ts, most are classi- f ied under the General Impor ter License. Certain produc ts are granted p re fe ren t ial du t ies w i t h in the f ramewo rk of the AFTA and the WTO. E f fec t ive A p r il 1, 2000, ta r i ff ex emp t ions on capital goods and new ma te r ia ls were replaced w i th a 5% ta r i f f. Impo rt taxes are collected th rough fo re ign exchange banks au tho r ized by the MOF. Impo r ts of certain goods r em a in restricted to approved importers, most of w h i ch are state en terpr ises. Pe t ram ina has a monopo ly on the importation of lub r i c a t ing oil and lub r i c a t ing fats, and Dahana on the importation of ammun i t ion and explosive gelatin. The monopo ly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of cer- ta in heavy equ ipment and motor veh ic les, a l though th is r ight may be transferred to general impor ters. The impo r ta t ion of t rucks is subject to restriction. Repatr iat ion requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion P resh ipment inspection Other Export licenses W i thout quotas Exporters (producers or suppliers) may sell the ir export proceeds to the BI through a redis- count fac i l i ty. Drafts may be rediscounted in rupiah or foreign currency. Such drafts de- nom ina ted in cu r renc ies other than the do l la r, euro, pound s ter l ing, and yen must f i rst be converted in to do l la rs. The m a x im um r em a in ing per iod to ma tu r i ty of draf ts that can be rediscounted by fore ign exchange banks to the BI is 720 days. The BI sets the d iscount rate for da i ly rediscount transactions based on the Singapore interbank offered rate for v a r ious m a t u r i t i es p l us a ma rg in. Exports w i th sight LC cond i t ions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered w i th the foreign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of goods con t a in ing imported ma ter ial that received import tax abo l i shm ent f rom the gove rnment mu st be exam ined before sh ipmen t. Yes. Exports are p roh ib i ted to coun t r ies against w h i ch the UN has imposed a trade embargo, as are exports to all coun t r ies of certain categories of unprocessed or low -qua l i ty rubbe r, brass and copper scrap (except from the is land of I r ian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and an t iques of cu l tu ral va lue. Exporters are requ ired to obtain trade permits issued by the MOT. Exports of certain dom e s t i c a l ly produced commod i t ies must have p r ior au tho r iza t ion f rom the MOT in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of cer- tain raw materials. Items affected by such controls inc lude clove seeds, logs, fer t i l izer, ce- men t, i ron for cons t ruc t ion re in fo rcemen t, au tomob i le tires, paper, asphalt, s tear in, cattle, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 INDONESIA W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods pro- duced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to the suspension of exports of var ious items in th is category. Manioc may be exported on ly by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consumer coun tr ies may be exported on ly by approved t e x t i le ex- porters, who may transfer th e ir allocated quotas to other approved exporters th rough the Commodity Exchange Board. Export taxes rang ing from $250 to $4,800 per cub ic me ter are app l ied to sawed and pro- cessed t imbe r. Exports of logs are sub ject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 per cub ic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Taxes are collected through fore ign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions Effective January 12, 2001, resident banks are prohibited from conducting the fo l low ing transactions w i th nonresidents: (1) lend ing or provision of overdraft in rup iah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds w i th nonresidents; (3) purchase of rup iah -denom ina ted securi- ties issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rup iah; and (5) equ i ty par t ic ipa- tion in rup iah with nonresidents. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase w i thout l im it shares issued by Indones ian com- panies in the Indones ian capital market. There is a control on the owne rsh ip of f inance companies in the form of jo int securities companies. Foreign companies are perm i t ted to issue Indones ian Depository Receipts (IDRs) th rough custodian banks in Indonesia. IDRs are instruments that facilitate the trading of shares of foreign companies in the Indonesian capital market. Custodian banks in turn issue IDRs based on the shares that the foreign companies have put in the custodian bank. No control applies as long as the shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (ISM). If those securities are listed on the ISM, they i n i t i a l ly shou ld comply w i th the Capi- tal Market Act and w i th the requ i rement on the max imum percentage of fore ign owne rsh ip of shares. However, Indones ian companies do not issue shares but rather Amer ican Deposi- tory Receipts (ADRs) in the U.S. capital market and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts n . r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 441 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n .r. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Banks are p roh ib i ted from pu rcha s ing secur i t ies denom ina ted in r u p i ah issued by nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks are allowed to issue securities on pr imary capital markets, subject to regulations on offshore loans. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations app ly as for bonds or o ther debt secur i t ies. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Banks require approval from the COLT for issuance of ins trumen ts w i th ma tu r i t ies of over two years or for amoun ts exceeding $20 m i l l i on a year a cred i tor; total issuances, howeve r, shou ld not exceed 30% of a bank 's cap i ta l. Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any f u n d. Contro ls on der ivat ives and other in s t rum en ts D e r i v a t i ve transac t ions, o ther than those associated w i th fo re ign exchange and in te rest rates, are p roh ib i t ed. Exception may be made by the BI for d e r iv a t ive t ransac t ions related to stock ma rg ins. Banks are obliged to enter in to a wr i t ten agreement w i th th e ir c l ien ts and explain the risks of these transactions and also to subm it a week ly report to the BI. Losses from d e r iv a t ive transac t ions exceeding 10% of each b ank 's cap i tal must imm e d i- ately be reported to the BI. Forward and swap sales or option transactions i n v o l v i ng s e l l i ng foreign currency call or purchasing foreign currency against rupiah by domestic banks to non res iden ts are l im i t ed to $3 m i l l i on a bank a customer. These controls do not app ly to inves tmen t-re la ted transactions (e.g., equ i ty par t ic ipa t ion, purchase of securities, and lend- ing). Banks are proh ib i ted from ma in ta in ing derivative exposure transacted by the bank 's owners, directors, employees, comm iss ioners, or any other party l inked to the bank, as w e ll as from ex tend ing c red it f a c i l i t i es and ove rd ra f ts for the purpose of d e r i v a t i ve t ransac t ions to the bank's debtors. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents In genera l, re s ident en t i t i es are p roh ib i ted from gran t ing cred it to non res ident entities. To residents from nonresidents F in an c i al credits By residents to nonresidents Resident en t i t ies, especially the nonbank private sector, may borrow from nonresidents; howeve r, they have to s u bm it pe r iod ic reports to the BI on th e ir borrow ing. The f o l l ow i ng are subject to approval by the Coo rd ina t ing M in i s t er of Economy: (1) bo r row ings related to deve lopment projects us ing nonrecourse, l im i ted recourse, advance payment, trustee bo r row ing, leas ing, and s im i l ar f in an c ing; (2) bo r row ings related to some deve lopment projects; and (3) bo r row ings related to the gove rnment or a state company ( i n c l u d i ng the State Bank of Pertamina), in c lud ing in the form of government equ i ty participation or guaran tee for p rov i s ion of feedstock supp ly. In general, there are no controls on the gran t ing of credit by residents (exc lud ing banks) to non r e s id ent en t i t ie s. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents Banks a re a l lowed to p r o v i de sure t ies and gua ran tees to non r e s id ent e n t i t i es on ly u n d er the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ion s: ( 1) wh en the re is s u f f i c i e nt con traguaran tee f rom bona f ide overseas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 INDONESIA Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad banks (excluding overseas branches of the relevant bank); and (2) when there is a cash deposit valued at 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are controlled: (1) foreign inves tment companies in in f ra s t ruc tu re projects such as seaports, electricity generation, transmission and distribution for pub l ic use, tele- commun ica t ions, shipping, a i r l ines, potable water supply, p u b l ic railways, and nuc lear electric power generation shou ld be established by way of j o i nt v en tu re between fore ign and Indonesian partners, and the share of Indonesian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, wh ich means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign c i t izen and/or entities. However, some of the company's shares must be sold to Indonesian citizens and/or entities through direct placement and/or ind irec t ly th rough the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after the commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownersh ip of direct inves tmen ts must begin to be divested by the e leven th year of produc t ion. For investments above $50 m i l l i o n, divestment of 50% must be completed w i th in 20 years. For smaller investments, the d ives tment requ i rement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are e l ig ib le to receive p re fe ren t ial customs du ty treatment for im- ports of requ ired raw materials for the first two years of produc t ion activity. Raw materials may be imported with no t ime l im i t. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its produc t ion is free to h i re foreign experts as needed to meet its export comm i tmen ts. Income tax holdings for up to eight years are granted to newly established corporations in 22 indus t r ial sectors. Takeovers of nonstrategic operations by foreign investors w i t h o ut government approval are perm i t ted. Investors are granted the r ight to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and f inanc ial ob l iga t ions in Indonesia), and to make transfers re la t ing to expenses connected w i th the emp loyment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to deprecia- tion allowances. No transfer permit is issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benef i ts from tax relief are be ing received; at present, however, foreign paymen ts do not r equ i re a transfer pe rm i t. Non res iden ts are a l lowed to buy land on ly w i th the t i t le status "the r ight to use land," but s ince the t i t le to real estate in Indones ia is "the r ight to b u i ld on land," they are not a l lowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inward direct invest- ment in local real estate. Yes. No. Effective January 12, 2001, resident banks are prohibited from conducting the fo l low ing transactions w i th nonresidents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing f u n ds w i th nonresidents; (3) purchase of rup iah -denom ina ted securi- ties issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rup iah; and (5) equ i ty participa- tion in rupiah with nonresidents. The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. COLT's p r ior approval is required before any pub l ic enterprise, commercial bank, or pub l ic sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Res ident banks or credit in s t i tu t ion s, spec if ica l ly the ones that deal w i th in te rna t ional trade and f inance activities, are allowed to borrow abroad w i t h in l im i t s. An annual borrow ing ce i l ing is imposed by the BI for foreign commerc ial borrow ing of more than two years' maturity. In addition, the prospective borrowers must obtain COLT deci- sions for q u e u i ng on the in te rna t ional capital market before so l ic i t ing for such borrowings. Besides, banks may receive foreign commercial borrow ing w i th ma tu r i t ies of no more than two years w i th an amount not exceeding $20 m i l l i on a creditor on a bilateral basis w i thout prior approval from the BI, but the banks should ma in ta in the total amount of such borrow- ings at or below a m a x im um of 30% of t h e ir capital. Trade f inanc ing, such as the issuance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 443 of LCs, red-clause LCs, supp l ie r 's and buy e r 's credits w i th ma tu r i t ies not exceeding one year and amoun ts of less than $20 m i l l i o n, are not considered borrow ings that r equ i re ap- proval f rom the COLT. A bank that has received a m ed ium- to long-term fore ign commer- c ial l e n d i ng f a c i l i ty (PKLN) c e i l i ng mu st p rov ide export credit of at least 80% of the PKLN received for the year concerned. Foreign comme rc ial bo r row ings received by f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s, such as leasing companies, fac to r ing companies, and consumer f i n a n c i ng com- panies, may not exceed f ive t im es the company 's net worth less its equ i ty share. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans or f inanc ial and commercial credits in either rup iah or foreign exchange to nonresidents, i n c l u d i ng those w i th authorization from res iden ts to obtain credit. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange. Banks may also purchase loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that the secu- rities must be inves tment grade and should not be issued by the ir groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regulations, namely the regulation on net open position aimed at p ruden t ial control. Th is is allowed; however, transactions are l im i ted by open position l im i t s. Deposit accounts in fo re ign exchange are subject to a 3% reserve requ i remen t, w h i le that for accounts in r u p i ah is 5%. n . r. n . r. Banks are on ly perm i t ted to place the ir investments in f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, and th is should not exceed 25% of a bank 's capital as we ll as 15% of the f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion 's capital. Equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion of fo re ign banks in a j o i nt bank can reach 99%. There is a r e q u i r em e nt that fore ign legal en t i t i es ob ta in a recommenda t ion f rom the monetary au tho r i t i es of t h e ir coun try of o r ig in. Such a recommenda t ion shou ld at least i n c l u de in fo rma t ion that the for- eign legal en t i ty has a good repu ta t ion and has never conducted any d isg race ful act in the bank ing business. At the end of each bus iness day, the total d a i ly consolidated net open pos i t ion (NOP), wh i ch covers both on- and off-balance-sheet i tems as we ll as both on- and offshore branches, mu st not exceed 20% of b ank 's capital after a trans i t ional per iod. The f in al phase of the t r an s i t ion went in to effect on J u ne 30, 2000. Banks must subm it a week ly report of t h e ir d a i ly conso l ida ted net open pos i t ion to the BI. The t ran s i t ional period for the NOP r egu l a t ion had th ree phases: (1) the excess amount of NOP in J u ne 1999 had to be up to 70% of that of December 1998; (2) the excess amount of NOP in December 1999 had to be up to 40% of that of December 1998; and (3) the 20% NOP l im i t a t i on became e f fec t ive by J u ne 30, 2000. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t i on al investors In su rance and r e in su r an ce compan ies l icensed in Indones ia are not allowed to invest abroad except for p r iv a te p lacement in compan ies condu c t ing insu rance bus iness overseas, such as in su rance compan ies, re insurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, etc. Indon e s i an mu tu al f u n ds are prohibited from investing abroad. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io he ld abroad L i a b i l i t i es d enom in a t ed in fo re ign currency of insu rance and re insu rance compan ies exceed ing assets d enom in a t ed in fo re ign cu r rency sha ll not be more than 10% of sha reho lde r s' e q u i t y. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 INDONESIA Arrangements for payments and receipts February 1. Some restrictions against Israel were removed by the M in i s t ry of Indu s t ry and Trade. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments June 21. Further restrictions against Israel were removed by the BI. April 1. Tariff exemptions on capital goods and new materials were replaced w i th a 5% tariff June 30. The f inal phase of the transition to 20% max imum NOP went into effect. Changes During 2001 January 12. Resident banks were prohibited from conducting the fo l low ing transactions w i th nonresidents: (1) lending or provision of overdrafts in rup iah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds w i th nonresidents; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securities issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rup iah; and (5) equity participation in rup iah with nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian rial. Un t il March 19, 2000, the exchange rate system consisted of three officially approved rates: (1) the official rate of Rls 1,750 per $1 applied mainly to the imports of essential goods and services as well as servicing public and publicly guaranteed debt; (2) the off ic ial "export" rate of Rls 3,000 per $1 applied to all other transactions; (3) and an effective Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) rate applied to imports from a positive list issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce (MOC). As of March 20, 2000, the official "export" rate was abolished, and since then the effective TSE rate is applied to all transactions except for government im- ports, imports of essential goods, and services of pub l ic and pub l ic ly guaranteed debt. Gradually, the Bank Markazi Jomhou ri Islami Iran (BMJII) has been a l low ing commercial banks limited access to the kerb market to cover certain current transactions; the rate on the uno f f ic ial market d iffers from the TSE exchange rate by about 1%. The BMJ II intervenes in the foreign exchange market to ensure a certain path for the TSE exchange rate. No. Government oil export proceeds, surrendered to the BMJ II at Rls 1,750 per $1, are mostly earmarked for imports of essential goods and services as we ll as serv ic ing pub l ic and pub- licly guaranteed debt, wh ich gives rise to an imp l ic it exchange subsidy. Forward exchange market No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Regional arrangements No. n.a. n.a. All bilateral payment arrangements have been terminated and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Iran is a member of the ACU. Settlements of current transactions w i th the member countries of the ACU are required to be settled in AMUs. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control Foreign exchange operations are centralized at the BMJII. The list of allowed imports and exports is regulated and issued per iod ica l ly by the MOC. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency A u t h o r i ty to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the BM J I I. Exports of gold ingots, coins, or sem i f in ished produc ts are proh ib i ted. Exports of f in i shed articles may be effected in accordance w i th relevant regulations. Na tural and ju r id i c al persons, i n c l u d i ng authorized banks, may import gold, p la t inum, and silver bu l l ion for commercial purposes, in accordance w i th the relevant regulations. The importation of more than a reasonable amount of personal jewelry for personal use requires approval from the BMJII. The ex- portation of Iranian gold coins for num isma t ic purposes requires prior approval from the BMJII. Yes. N a t ion a ls leav ing Iran are a l lowed to purchase up to $6,000 ($2,000 at a t ime) or the e q u i v a l e nt a person a year at the cu r rent market rate. Yes. There is no l i m it on the amount of foreign exchange that foreign travelers may b r ing in to the coun try, but a declaration is requ i red to be able to repatriate the excess amount not used in the I s lam ic Repub l ic of Iran. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Iranian nationals may open foreign currency-denominated (FCD) accounts both domestically and abroad. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange originating abroad and deposited in these accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout l im i ta t ions. Domestic currency accounts The balance of r ial accounts may be used on ly in the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F in an c ing requ irements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requ iremen ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 447 Advance payment requ i remen ts Requ i remen ts ranged from 15% to 100% of the LC amount, depend ing on the type of im- ports. E f fec t ive February 7, 2001, the m i n im um advance payment requ i rement was lowered to 10% of the LC amount. Import deposits are un remune ra ted but re fundab le. Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Nega t ive list Open general licenses Yes. Yes. Imports th rough LCs and b i l ls of exchange are permitted. Yes. Yes. All importers must obtain import licenses from relevant ministries together with the ap- proval of the BMJII for foreign exchange allocation at a particular exchange rate or the open ing of LCs w i th the respective commercial banks. Clearance through customs is au- thorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a pe rm it issued by the MOC. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals, must be accompanied by a special pe rm it issued by the M in i s t ry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Educa t ion, and te lecommun ica t ion devices requ i re a pe rm it issued by the M in is try of the Post, Tele- graph, and Telephone. There is a pos i t ive import list of 47 broad categories of goods for imports that, effec t ive Janua ry 24, 2001, may be imported at the TSE exchange rate. Authorized goods cover a broad category of items, wh i ch is announced pe r iod ica l ly by the MOC. Some goods may be imported und er certain conditions with special permits. Imports f rom Israel are p roh ib i ted. At the beg inn ing of each year, the MOC issues the list of goods that may be imported w i thout p r ior approval. Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Most imports are subject to an ad va lorem commerc ial bene f it tax in add i t ion to any applicable customs duties. State import monopo ly No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Exports and Export Proceeds U n t il March 19, 2000, all non -o il export proceeds had to be f u l ly repatriated and su r ren- dered to comme rc ial banks (except for a "bonus" exemption) against a fixed rate of R ls 3,000 per $1. The banks then su r rende red the f u n ds to the BM J II after a m ax imum of 15 days. Upon su r rende r ing, exporters were g iven the r igh t, in the form of "import ce r t i f i- cates," to repurchase the f u ll amount of fore ign exchange from the central bank and cou ld e i ther use th is r ight themse lves for impo r t ing or sell the r ight on the TSE to other au thor- ized importers. The period between the date goods were exported and the date foreign ex- change earnings were repatriated to the bank ing sector was extended to eight mon ths from six months. An exporter could receive a 1% bonus in the form of a retention allowance for each month of early repatriation and surrender. Effective March 20, 2000, exporters receive certificates of deposit (CDs) against the repatriation of the ir foreign exchange earnings, wh ich must be repatriated w i th in eight mon ths (for capital goods, w i th in f ive years) and wh i ch they may use for the ir imports, sell on the TSE to other licensed importers, or sell to the bank at the preced ing day 's TSE rate. Also from th is date, exporters may receive a 2% bonus in the fo rm of a re ten t ion a l lowance for each mon th of early repa tr ia t ion and surren- der. There is no repa t r ia t ion requ i rement for exports of handicrafts. Su r render requ i remen ts The ratios are the same as those for the repa t r ia t ion requ i remen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN F inanc ing requirements Yes. Documentat ion requ iremen ts Letters of credit Guarantees The export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions and b i l ls of exchange is permitted. Shorter-term trade f in an c ing is cu r r en t ly under taken th rough bank- to-bank c red it l ine s, where exporters are certain of rece iv ing th e ir sales proceeds on a sight basis th rough a postimportation f inanc ing fac i l i ty already established between the BM J II and the respec- t i ve foreign banks. Und er th is umb r e l la f a c i l i ty, the BM J II provides an im p l i c it fore ign exchange guarantee against r i a l /do l l ar d ev a lu a t ion (but not against f l u c t u a t i o ns in cross rates, w h i ch w o u ld have to be met by the importers). Preshipment inspection Inspec t ion by the cus toms au tho r i t ies gene ra l ly app l ies to all exports. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes The MOC issues an overall export license for goods on the authorized list. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related paymen ts Inv i s ib le payments may be made beyond BMJII l im i ts from ex terna l ly sourced FCD accounts. F re ight charges may on ly be transferred th rough LCs or b i l ls of exchange up to a m a x i m um of 30% of the f.o.b. v a l ue of goods; to transfer more than 30% requ i res the approval of the BM J I I. On ly I r a n i an insu rance companies may issue in su rance po l ic ies for the impo rt of goods. Approval is on a case-by-case basis for u n l o a d i ng and storage costs, and p aym ent of adm in i s t r a t ive charges. There is no con trol on the payment of comm iss ions. Prior approval Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval App roval is on a case-by-case basis for prof i ts and d i v i d e n d s. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts and bona f ide tests for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im i ts are $6,000 a year ($2,000 at a t ime) for a person w i th an i n d i v i d u al passport and $1,000 a person for those t rave l ing w i th a group passport. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits I ran ian na t iona ls are allowed to pay pens ions and f am i ly ma in tenance to non re s ident employees and are allowed to transfer these paymen ts th rough the b a n k i ng system at the TSE rate. Yes. Budget allowances are p rov ided on a mon th ly basis to s tuden ts on scho la rsh ips abroad, approved by the M in i s t ry of H igher Educa t ion, and may be converted in to fo re ign ex- change at the o f f ic ial rate of R ls 1,750 per $1. All other s tuden ts abroad are a l lowed to purchase fo re ign exchange for t u i t i on and boa rd ing at the TSE rate (w i th l im i t s ), and be- yond that from ex te rna l ly sourced FCD accounts. I n d i v i d u a ls who seek m ed i c al t rea tment abroad may ob ta in a fore ign exchange a l lowance, if it is approved by the H igh M ed i c al C o u n c il of the M in i s t ry of Hea l th, at Rls 1,750 per $1. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 449 Foreign nationals working in the pub l ic sector in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose con- tracts are in rials are allowed to remit abroad up to 50% of their net salaries per month at the TSE rate, up to a monthly l im it of $500 or to transfer 100% of the ir salaries at the cur- rent market rate w i thout l im i ta t ion. Foreign workers in the p r iva te sector are allowed to transfer 100% of the ir salaries at the TSE rate w i thout l im i ta t ion. Those wo rk ing in e i ther sector w i th contracts in foreign exchange are also allowed to t rans fer 100%. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payment of consu l t ing / legal fees w i th the approval of the Bureau of Legal Services of I ran is pe rm i t ted. Yes. There are quan t i ta t ive l im i ts for payment of subscr ip t ions and membe r sh ip fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature n.a. No. Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Non res iden ts may invest in in s t rum en ts traded on the TSE, but such inve s tmen ts are not protected und er the inves tment law. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct inves tment There are con tro ls on all cred it operations and all transactions in sureties, guarantees, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Permitted w i th the confirmation of the H igh Council for Investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Inwa rd d irect inve s tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Con tro ls are adm in is te red by the Organ iza t ion for Inves tment and Econom ic and Techn i- cal Assistance of the M in i s t ry of Econom ic A f fa i rs and Finance, if the inves tment took place in accordance w i th the Law Conce rn ing A t t rac t ion and Protection of Foreign Cap i tal Inve s tmen t. The repatriation of capital is guaranteed with the approval of the Organization for Invest- ment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the M in is t ry of Economic A f fa i rs and F inance and the BMJII. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t i ons Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other contro ls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds March 20. The o f f ic ial "export" exchange rate was abolished, reducing the number of exchange rates to two from three. March 20. Exporters receive a CD that they may use for imports, sell on the TSE, or sell to th e ir bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 451 Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 24. All authorized goods and those requ ir ing a special permit may be imported at the TSE exchange rate. February 7. The m i n im um advance payment requ irement was lowered to 10% of the LC amount. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 1999) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Iraqi dinar is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency. The exchange rates are set by the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI). The CBI undertakes transactions in the listed currenc ies only with authorized dealers. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic cur- rency Use of foreign exchange among resi- dents Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the CBI. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the CBI and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor of the CBI. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The M in is try of Trade (MOT) formulates import policy and the annual import program. Yes. n.a. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that they declare it upon impo r ta t ion. Resi- dents may take out w i th them worked gold not exceeding f ive grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought w i th them for personal use. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency IRAQ 453 The m a x im um am o u nt a l lowed is ID 5. Amoun ts up to ID 1,000 are a l lowed. Travelers may b r ing in foreign exchange, inc lud ing currency notes (other than Israeli cur- rency), in u n l im i t ed amoun ts, p rov ided that they declare the funds on an exchange con t rol fo rm; amoun ts not in t end ed to be taken out of the coun t ry are exempt from dec la ra t ion. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident I raq is and resident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open fo re ign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts w i th- out restriction, prov ided the accounts have been credited w i th foreign banknotes. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Non r e s id ent I raq is and non re s ident na t iona ls of other Arab coun t r ies are a l lowed to open fo re ign cu r rency accounts at the commerc ial banks and to use the balances in these ac- counts w i thout restriction, provided the accounts have been credited w i th foreign bank- notes. Nonresident accounts are d iv ided into ord inary nonresident accounts, which invo lve cu r rent payment transactions, and special non res ident accounts, wh ich invo lve capital t rans fer transac t ions. Balances on these accounts and any applicable interest are free ly t rans fe rab le abroad in fore ign currenc ies, p rov ided that the f u n ds have been deposited w i th licensed dealers w i t h in three mon ths of transfer. Iraqi na t iona ls residing abroad (or the ir legal representatives) may w i thd raw from the ir nonres ident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year in three in s ta l lmen ts to cover personal expenses in the ir country of residence. For all o ther cases, app roval is r equ i r ed. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses The Raf ida in Bank or the Rasheed Bank provides foreign exchange upon presentation of the exchange con trol copy of the impo rt license, except in some instances when re fe rence mu st be made to the CB I. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 IRAQ Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are restricted by UN sanctions. Licenses are issued in accordance w i th an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. All pr iva te impor ts are subject to licenses, except imports of materials cons t i tu t ing basic elements for deve lopment projects. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in pr inc ip le, prohibited from all sources. To f inance the Export Subs idy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is lev ied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies imp lemen t ing develop- ment projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, inc lud ing income taxes due on the earnings of the ir non-Iraqi workers. State import monopoly Imports of commodities are no rma l ly hand led by the p u b l ic sector. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters of 13 goods manufactured by f i rms in the pub l ic sector must repatriate 60% of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and surrender them w i th in two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in a foreign exchange account w i th the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses Exports are restricted by UN sanctions. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The MOT may prohibit the exportation of any com- modity when supply fa l ls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exh ib i t ions and Trading Services. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers A ll payments for i n v i s i b l es requ ire perm iss ion. Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is available only for the payment of freight and insurance. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for the ir exports. Yes. The basic allowance for travel to Arab countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a person a tr ip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a tr ip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Informa t ion is available only for payment of medical and study abroad costs. Yes. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of the ir residence, except for certain countries, such as Ind ia; the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU; and countries in North Africa, where students are paid a fixed amount in dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits IRAQ 455 The Ra f lda in Bank and the Rasheed Bank are perm i t ted to t rans fer salaries of teachers who are na t iona ls of Arab countries employed by the M in is t ry of Higher Education, and of sci- en t i f ic researchers and medical doctors, in accordance w i th the terms of the ir contracts. Yes. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts w i th pub l ic ins t i tu t ions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not em- ployed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 a person if not in- sured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled noncontrac- tual workers employed in the nationalized sector by the government are en t i t led to ID 40 a person a mon th. Persons und er 16 years or over 55 years of age, however, are not a l lowed to transfer the ir ea rn ings abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer w i th in three months. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Most capital transactions effected abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. Controls on cap i tal transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 IRAQ Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment All investments effected abroad by residents, whether Iraq is or foreign na t iona ls, requ i re p r ior approval. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural, and tourism sectors; participation is encouraged by the Arab Investment Law. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that their contribution and profits be paid in Iraqi dinars and that the m i n im um capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 m i l l ion; (2) Arab investors to transfer annua l ly up to 100% of the profits distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of their paid-in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for indus tr ial and agricultural investments. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that w i ll be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one- half of their productive l i fe left. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal cap ital movements Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Inves tment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Changes During 2000 The IMF has not received from the authorities the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system since 1999. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ireland is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the I r i sh pound u n t il February 10, 2002, wh en the euro w i ll become the sole legal tende r. Between J anu a ry 1 and February 9, 2002, both the I r i sh pound and the euro w i ll c i rcu la te. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Ireland participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Aus t r ia, Be lg ium, F in l and, France, Germany, Greece (effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001), I re land, I ta ly, Luxembou rg, the Ne ther lands, Portugal, and Spain. In ternal conversion rates in respect to the na t ional currencies of EMU participants are f ixed to the euro, whereas the ex ternal ex- change rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the I r i sh pound is set at IR£0.787564 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to in te rvene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requ irements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. No. No. Yes. Res tr ic t ions on f inanc ial transfers w i th Angola and Iraq are app l ied in accordance w i th relevant UN Security Council resolutions and EU regulations. In accordance w i th EU regulations, res t r ic t ions against the Federal R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia were l i f t ed as of Nov emb er 10,2000. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (co ins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Yes. Resident Accounts 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Nonresident Accounts 458 He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency he ld abroad Accounts in domes t ic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts blocked in accordance w i th UN sanctions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses w i th quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and f irearms and amm u n i t i o n) are proh ib i ted w i thout special licenses. Impor ts of certain goods ( in c lud ing textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originat- ing in certain non -EU countries are subject to either quan t i ta t ive restrictions or surve i l lance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs The EU system of customs du t ies applies to imports. State impo rt monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ irements F inan c ing requ irements Documentat ion requ irements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of controlled m i l i t a ry and dual-use goods to both EU and non -EU coun t r ies may requ ire export licenses. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 459 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for a very l im i ted number of sectors that are subject to special conditions. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, ind iv idua ls, and companies whose pr inc ipal place of residence or registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Ru ral Development through its Land Services D iv i s ion for perm iss ion to purchase land. Such perm iss ion is rarely w i thh e ld. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Arrangemen ts for payments and receipts November JO. In accordance w i th ED regu la t ions, res tr ic t ions against the Federal R e p u b l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Israel is the new Israeli sheqel. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed with regard to a basket of currencies com- prising the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the yen. The market exchange rate f luc- tuates w i th in a crawling band in response to market forces. The upper and lower l im i ts of the band, which are adjusted daily, were originally derived to reflect the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation of the main trading part- ners. In the past few years, however, the practice has changed, such that only the slope of the lower l im it has been reduced, whenever possible, wh i le the upper l im it has remained unchanged at a steeper slope. The slope of the upper l im it has been 6% on an annu al basis since Ju ly 26, 1993; the slope of the lower l im it has been 2% since August 6, 1998. As a result, the w id th of the band is gradually w iden ing —on December 31, 2000, it was 39.2% (based on the average of the two limits). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control n.a. n.a. No. Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange; it is adm in is- tered by the Bank of Israel (BOI) in cooperation with other government agencies. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to classify the accounts of residents of areas under au tonomous Palestinian adm in is tra t ion as a separate group and to report on the basis of the same principles that apply to nonresident accounts. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 461 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Other non tar iff measures Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. W i th the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or proh ib it im- ports from Israel. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Most exports do not requ ire licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equ ipment re- quire licensing. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 ISRAEL Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s trumen ts On capital ma rket secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by res iden ts Bonds or other debt securities The Foreign Exchange Control Regu la t ions prescribe direct reporting to the Con t ro l ler of Foreign Exchange of ou tward por tfo l io investments and for offer ings abroad by Israe li corporations for amoun ts above $5 m i l l i o n. Ind iv idu a ls and nonp ro f it organizations are requ i red to report to the Controller of Foreign Exchange all outward po r t fo l io inve s tmen ts above $0.5 m i l l i o n. On February 3, 2000, th is thresho ld was raised to $5 m i l l i o n. Househo lds may free ly purchase secur i t ies abroad. In s t i tu t ion al investors, i.e., p rov ident funds and pension funds, may make direct and portfolio investments abroad of up to 5% of th e ir assets. Purchase abroad by res iden ts The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. On co l lec t ive inve s tment secur i t ies Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Ou tward direct inves tment No. No. I n s t i t u t i o n al investors may make direct and por tfo l io inves tmen ts abroad of up to 5% of th e ir assets. The Foreign Exchange Regulations requ i re direct reporting to the Con t ro l ler of Foreign Exchange of outward direct inves tmen ts made by corporations above $5 m i l- l ion. I n d i v i d u a ls and nonp ro f it organizations are requ ired to report outward direct inves t- men ts above $0.5 m i l l i o n. E f fec t ive February 3, 2000, t h is thresho ld was raised to $5 m i l l i o n. On the same date, new imm igran ts and Israeli citizens re turn ing to Israel after h a v i ng resided abroad for seven years or more were exempted from direct repor- t i ng for a three-year period. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of d irect inves tment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents I n d i v i d u a ls are perm i t ted to invest free ly in real estate abroad. P rov ident f u n ds may invest in real estate abroad up to 5% of the ir assets. E f fec t ive September 25, 2000, pens ion f u n ds are a l lowed to invest abroad. Controls on personal capital movements No. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, mortgage and commerc ial banks are r equ i r ed to report fo re ign exchange transac t ions of residents and local cu r rency transac t ions of non res iden ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 463 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements All foreign currency accounts are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, half of wh i ch must be deposited w i th the BOI in an interest-generating account. The same reserve ratios app ly to bank accounts held by both res iden ts and non re s iden t s. Reserve requ i remen ts against resident fore ign currency accounts are denom ina ted in local currency, whereas reserve requ i remen ts against non res ident fore ign cu r rency accounts are denom ina ted in fore ign currency. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad The l im it on d irect and po r t fo l io inves tment abroad by i n s t i t u t i o n al inves tors is 5% of the ir assets. L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally There is no m i n im um l im i t, a l though p ruden t ial regu la t ions may app ly. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Changes During 2000 February 3. The threshold for direct reporting on investments abroad by i n d i v i d u a ls and nonp ro f it organizations was raised to $5 m i l l i on from $0.5 m i l l i o n. New imm i g r a n ts and Israeli citizens re turn ing to Israel after hav ing resided abroad for seven years or more were exempted from direct repor t ing for a three-year period. Cap i tal transac t ions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions January J. Mortgage and commerc ial banks were requ i red to report fo re ign exchange transac t ions of res iden ts and local cu r rency transac t ions of nonres iden ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Italy is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender r em a ins the I ta l ian l i ra u n t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Be- tween Janua ry 1 and February 28, 2002, both the I ta l ian l i ra and the eu ro w i ll c i r cu l a t e. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Clearing agreements A dm i n i s t r a t i on of control I ta ly par t ic ipa tes in a cu r rency u n i on (EMU) comp r i s ing 12 membe rs of the EU: A u s t r i a, Be lg ium, F i n l a n d, France, Germany, Greece (e f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001), I r e l and, I t a l y, Luxembou rg, the Ne ther lands, Portugal, and Spain. In t e rn al conve rs ion rates in respect to the na t ional currenc ies of EMU pa r t ic ipan ts are f ixed to the euro, whereas the ex te rnal ex- change rate of the euro is market de te rm ined. The conversion rate between the eu ro and the I t a l i an l i ra is set at Lit 1936.27 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to in te rvene to smoo th out f lu c tu a t ions in ex ternal exchange rates. No. No. Prem iums and discounts in the forward exchange market are no rma l ly left to the in te rp lay of market forces. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Se t t lemen ts w i th fore ign coun t r ies a re n o rm a l ly made in quo ted cu r renc ies or in euros on fore ign accounts. n.a. n.a. Italy ma in ta ins clearing accounts w i th Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used on ly to f inance trade between certain districts of Croatia and S loven ia and the I ta l ian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechan ism th rough wh ich outstanding balances are settled w i t h in 90 days. On ly Italy is allowed to ma in ta in a debit balance on these accounts. Res iden ts are a l lowed to conduct fo re ign exchange transactions f ree ly, w i th se t t lemen ts to be effected e i ther ind i r e c t ly — th rough the Bank of Italy (BOI), other f i n a n c i al in te rmed ia r- ies, and the Poste I ta l iane S.p.a.—or d i rec t ly by draw ing on external accounts or by offset- t i ng debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and in te rmed ia r- ies must t ran sm i t, for statistical purposes, data to the I ta l ian Foreign Exchange O f f ice (FEO) on those fore ign transactions that exceed the equ iv a l ent of Lit 20 m i l l i on by f i l l i ng out a fore ign exchange s ta t is t ical re tu rn. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 465 In accordance with UN sanctions Certain restrictions are imposed on the mak ing of payments for current and capital transac- tions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar (effective May 24, 2000), and the UNITA movement in Angola. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted on November 14, 2000. Effective February 17, 2000, the f u n ds and other resources of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) were frozen. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Domestic purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equ iva lent of Lit 20 m i l l i on must be declared to the FEO. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Effective January 17, 2000, purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equ iva lent of Lit 20 m i l l ion must be declared to the FEO. Before that date, purchases and sales of gold were reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents were allowed to purchase and import unref ined gold under m in is ter ial license for indus t r ial purposes. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take w i th them into or out of the country un- l im i ted amounts of cash and securities in Italian l ire and/or foreign cu r rency. For fiscal and anti-money laundering purposes, the transfer of cash and/or securities exceeding the equivalent of Lit 20 m i l l ion must be declared by f i l l i ng out a form when crossing the border into or out of non-EU countries and submitting the form to border customs offices; for EU- country entry or exit, this declaration must be submitted at banks, customs offices, post offices, or a customs guard station w i th in 48 hours after entry into Italian territory or 48 hours prior to exit from Italian territory. For transfers by mail, the declaration must be submitted w i th in 48 hours after receipt or at the t ime of ma i l ing. The declaration has to be sent to the FEO by banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ iremen ts for imports Documentat ion requ irements for release of fore ign exchange for impor ts Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures ITALY There are accounts that have been blocked in compliance w i th UN Security Counc il reso lu t ions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Impor ts are governed by EU regulations according to wh ich imports of most products, ex- cept for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quan t i- ta t ive restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to va r iab le import levies, wh ich have replaced all prev ious barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other ag r icu l tu ral and l ive- stock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, but are subject to the general ru les cited in the section on Adm in i s t ra t ion of Control. Nega t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ iremen ts F inan c ing requ irements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports to non-EU countries are free, w i th the exception of high-technology products inc luded in an EU regulation and of oil extracted from the seabed, wh ich are sub ject to m in i s te r ial au thor iza t ion. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 467 The p u b l ic o f fe r ing in I ta ly of securities issued by m u t u al funds that are not covered by EU d i rec t ives is subject to au thor iza t ion. No. No. No. No. No. No. Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On co l lec t ive investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transac t ions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts Portfolio investments abroad of l i fe insurance and pension funds are subject to pruden t ial regu la t ions. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by secur it ies laws The pub l ic offer ing in Italy of financial products is to be reported to the supervisory au tho r i ty, and the corresponding prospectus should be attached. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2000 January 17. Transactions invo lv ing the domestic ownersh ip and trade of gold were liberalized. February ln. The f u n ds and other resources of the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghan is tan) were frozen. May 24. Sanctions were imposed w i th respect to Myanmar. November 14. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal R e p u b l ic of Yugos lav ia were l i f t ed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: Feb rua ry 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Jama ica is the Jama ica do l l a r. Comm emo r a t ive gold co ins in d enom in a t ions of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not c i r cu l a t e. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. C la s s i f ica t ion Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Jama ica d o l l ar is de te rm ined in the in t e rb ank ma rke t. The fo re ign exchange market is operated by the commerc ial banks, other authorized dealers (ADs), cambios, and the Bank of Jama ica (BJ). The commerc ial banks buy and se ll for t h e ir own account. ADs and camb ios are requ i red to sell to the BJ a prescr ibed m i n i m um am o u nt of fo re ign exchange that they have purchased. Excess fore ign exchange may be sold w i t h o ut re s t r ic t ions to the comme rc ial banks, o ther ADs, and the general p u b l i c. Proceeds f rom o f f i c i al loans, d i v e s tm e nt of gove rnment assets, and taxes on the baux i te sector payab le in fo re ign cu r rency are sold d i r e c t ly to the BJ. W h i le the re is no res t r ic t ion on t ransac t ions in any cu r rency, the p r i n c i p al fore ign cu r renc ies accepted in the exchange ma rket are the Canad ian d o l l a r, the pound s te r l ing, and the U .S. do l la r. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The ma rket is c u r r e n t ly inac t ive. Prescr ipt ion of currency requ iremen ts Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of fo re ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangemen ts C lea r ing agreements Adm in i s t r a t i on of control In terna t ional security restr ict ions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Paymen ts to all coun t r i es may be made by c red i t ing Jama ica do l la rs to an ex te rnal account or a fo re ign cu r rency accoun t. Rece ip ts f rom all coun t r i es must be received by deb it of an ex te rnal account or in any fo re ign cu r r en cy. n .a. n .a. Jama ica is a m emb er of the CAR ICOM. The c lea r ing a r rangemen ts w i t h in the f ramewo rk of the CAR ICOM have been suspended s ince November 1, 1990. The BJ no longer in te rvenes in CAR ICOM p r iva te sector com- m e r c i al transac t ions; se t t lemen ts for such t ransac t ions are effected by the comme rc ial b a n k i ng sector in conv e r t ib le cu r renc ie s. T r ad ing in fo re ign exchange, except by and th rough an AD, is p roh ib i t ed. The MOF has the au tho r i ty to issue d i r e c t ions to spec if ied classes of persons rega rd ing the a c q u i s i t i on of fo re ign assets. In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Repayment of the loan from Iraq has been suspended in l i ne w i th UN sanctions. Paym ent arrears No. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 469 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, or ho ld ing of gold for num i sma t ic or industrial purposes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Funds on these accounts ("A" accounts) may be transferred free ly between residents and nonresidents. In cases when the transferee is a bank, licensed deposit-taking institution, credit union, bu i ld ing society, cambio operator, un it trust, or pension fund, the acquisition of the foreign currency must be in accordance w i th directions issued by the MOF. External accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Jamaica, w i th transfers from other external accounts, and w i th the proceeds from the sale of gold or foreign currencies to an AD. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of fore ign currencies. Yes. Yes. n.a. These accounts ("B" accounts) are exempt from tax on interest earned, prov ided that depos- its are held as certificates of deposit w i th at least one-year ma tur i ty. After September 22, 1991, new B accounts may not be opened. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted A accounts he ld by non res iden ts are subject to the same regu la t ions app l ied to those ac- counts held by residents, but nonresidents may open tax-free foreign currency A accounts. All credits to these accounts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from the local purchase of foreign exchange. Domestic currency accounts The same regulations apply as for accounts held by residents. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are requ ired for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger p u b l ic health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Board, which is responsible to the M in- ister of Indus t ry and Commerce. Imports of motor veh ic les requ i re a perm it for govern- ment statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the BJ. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 20% for nonagricultural products and 40% for ag r icu l tu ral products, in compliance w i th the four th phase of the CARICOM GET. Some ag r icu l tu ral imports are subject to add i t ional stamp du t ies of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of en try. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 JAMAICA State impo rt monopo ly No. Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts F i n a n c i ng requ iremen ts Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most goods may be exported w i thout restriction. However, specific licenses are required for exports of cer ta in ag r i cu l tu r al products, amm u n i t i o n, explosives, firearms, an t ique fu rn i tu r e, motor vehicles, m ineral and metal ores, paintings, jewe lry, and petroleum p roduc ts, n .r. n . r. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Contro ls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatr iat ion requ irements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts No. No. Yes. Yes. No. n .r. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to m i n i s t e r i al approval; a prospectus is requ ired und er the Companies Act. Purchase abroad by residents For banks, licensed deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions, credit un ions, b u i l d i ng societies, cambio operators, u n it trusts, and pens ion fund s, the purchase must be in accordance w i th direc- t ions issued by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases. On co l lec t ive inve s tment securities M i n i s t e r i al approval is requ ired for banks, licensed depos i t- tak ing ins t i tu t ions, cred it un ion s, b u i l d i ng societies, camb io operators, u n it trusts, and pension fund s. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 471 Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Prov is ions spec if ic to comm e r c ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t i on al investors Yes. n . r. No. No. No. No. n .r. No. Mu tu al f u nd schemes must be approved by the Securities Comm iss ion. L im i ts (min .) on investment portfolio he ld loca l ly The m i n im um to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance does not exceed 70% of the domestic l i a b i l i t i es of the company. Currency-ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Comme rc ial banks and licensed deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions may be requ i red to match t h e ir Jamaica do l l ar l i a b i l i t i es to th e ir c l ien ts w i th Jamaica do l lar assets. Other contro ls imposed by securities laws Non r e s id ent compan ies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give investment advice. The non res ident company must be owned, controlled, or supervised by persons who are c i t izens of, and are ac tua l ly residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM states as may be prescribed. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Ap r il 1, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Independen t ly floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is de term ined on the basis of supp ly and demand. However, the au thor i t ies in tervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly cond i- t ions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the dollar. No. No. There are no o f f i c i a l ly set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated ma in ly by the MOF, the M in i s t ry of In terna t ional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) acting as the gov- ernment's agent. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Payments related to imports from, and exports to, Iraq and L ibya requ ire perm iss ion from the MITI. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola requires permission from the MITI. Permission from the MOF is required for paymen ts th rough Japan to fore ign coun tr ies by residents of Angola, Iraq, and, u n t il May 17, 2000, Libya, as well as for payments arising from capital transactions and service payments from Japan to residents of those countries. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 473 Accounts in domestic currency he ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for impor ts Documentation requ irements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The Impo rt Res t r ic t ion System covers 77 i tems ( fou r -d ig it Ha rmon ized Commod i ty De- scription and Cod ing System, HS base), wh i ch are subject to import res tr ic t ions f a l l i ng u n d er the state trad ing, na t ional security, p u b l ic health, and mo ral protection p rov i s ions of the WTO. For the restricted items, once importers obtain au tho r iza t ion from the M IT I, they receive an import quota certificate that en t i t les them to receive an import license from a bank au toma t ica l ly upon app l ica t ion. For the impor ta t ion of certain other goods from cer- tain countries or sh ipp ing areas, i n d i v i d u al authorization must be obtained from the M IT I. Import settlements effected under the special methods requ i re au tho r iza t ion f rom the M IT I. Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repa tr ia t ion requ irements F inanc ing requirements Do cum en ta t ion requ irements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export res t ra int may be app l ied e i th er g loba l ly or to certain destinations, and it may cover export vo lum e, export prices, or other cond i t ions. Twenty-seven export cartels are operat- ing und er the p rov i s ions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In add i t ion, 228 i tems are subject to a license to control th e ir exportation to specified destinations e i ther because of short supp ly in the domestic market (e.g., n icke l) or to forestall the impos i t ion of import res t r ic t ions by other coun t r ies (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above r equ i re au tho r iza t ion from the M IT I. Exports of specified raw ma ter ia ls for fo re ign process- ing and re impo r ta t ion r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 Without quotas W i th quotas Expo rt taxes JAPAN Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Outward direct investments by residents in a limited number of industries, such as the manufacture of arms, requ ire prior notice. Inward direct investments by foreign investors in a limited number of industries, such as the manufac ture of arms, requ i re prior notice. No. No. No. There is (1) a ce i l ing on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency- denominated bonds, exc lud ing corporate bonds issued by nonresidents, equ iva lent to 30% of their net worth; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. The l im i ts are (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies ho ld ing securities issued by nonresidents; (2) the same ratio that applies to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for ho ld ing by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds; and (4) 30% of pension trust assets for foreign currency- denominated assets purchased by pension funds deposited before Ap r il 1, 1990, and 50% thereafter, on the basis of each ins t i tu t ional account, w i th the ce i l ing for fore ign- affiliated companies being 70%. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 475 Arrangements for payments and receipts May 1 ~*. All restrictions on paymen ts to L ibya were e l im ina ted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan d inar. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not c ircu la te but are ava i lab le to residents and nonresidents. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative The dinar is off ic ia l ly pegged to the SDR, but in practice, it has been pegged to the do l lar since late 1995. The difference between the CBJ's buy ing and se l l ing rate is 0.3%. U n t il J u ly 26, 2000, when it was e l im ina ted, a fee of 0.1% could be levied by the CBJ on foreign currency transfers. Amounts transferred from nonresidents' accounts in foreign currency, as well as transfers made by governmental entities, diplomatic missions, and nonprofit and humanitarian organizations, were exempt from this fee. No. No. Licensed banks may buy foreign currencies w i thout l im i ts against d inars from the ir cus- tomers on a forward deal basis, and they may sell foreign currencies against d inars to th e ir customers on a forward deal basis to pay for imports into Jordan. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. There is an arrangement w i th the Syrian Arab Republic. There is an arrangement with the Republic of Yemen. Adm in is tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. No. No. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Resident Accounts 477 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts For statistical purposes, proof of domicile is required when nonresident accounts are opened. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The list includes imports from countries that have bilateral agreements w i th Jordan and imports by certain institutions. Import taxes and/or tariffs On Apr il 3, 2000, the max imum tariff rate was reduced to 30% from 35%. Customs duties are levied at a single rate. State import monopoly Oil imports are conducted by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Licenses for exports are not required except for exports to countries that have b i la teral agreements w i th Jordan. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 JORDAN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap i tal transact ions Contro ls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts Contro ls on der ivat ives and other in s trumen ts Controls on cred it operations No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Commercial credits There are no controls, except for exposure limits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment E f fec t ive November 16, 2000, non res ident investments are restricted to a m a x im um of 49% or 50% ownersh ip or subscription in shares in the fo l low ing major sectors: trad ing and trade services, construction, contracting, and transportation. The amount of investment in any one project should not be less than JD 50,000. Investments in the fo l low ing sectors are not permitted for nonresidents: investigation and security, qua r ry ing and m i n i n g, removal of waste, sport c lubs, and transportation of goods and passengers. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements These transactions are allowed only if reciprocal treatment exists. Cabinet approval must be ob ta ined. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gamb l ing is illegal in Jordan, but prize earnings transfers are not restricted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Effective J u ly 5, 2000, licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 30% (previously 50%) of their foreign currency resources for export activities. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Effective Ju ly 5, 2000, licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 30% (previously 50%) of their foreign currency resources for export activities. Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are no controls except for fore ign exchange exposure l im i ts. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are no regu la t ions for issuance of these securities, but por tfo l io inves tmen ts are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 479 Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no controls except for foreign exposure limits. There are no controls, except for sectoral controls described under direct investments. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement July 26. The 0.1% commission charged by the CBJ on foreign exchange transactions was eliminated. Imports and import payments April 3. The max imum tariff rate was reduced to 30% from 35%. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment November 16. The list of sectors in which nonresidents may not invest or may hold only up to a limited percent of shares was revised. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions July 5. The amount of their foreign currency resources that licensed banks are permitted to lend for export activities was lowered to 30% from 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 16, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakh tenge. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The official exchange rates of the tenge against the dollar, the euro, and the Russian rub le are determined once a week on the basis of rates in the foreign exchange, in terbank, and exchange bureau markets, and are announced each Monday by the National Bank of Ka- zakhstan (NBK). Official rates for more than 30 other currencies are set on the basis of cross rates in international markets. The currency market includes the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (KASE), which conducts daily trading in online mode using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter interbank market, and a network of exchange bureaus hand l ing foreign exchange cash transactions. Banks may participate in auctions on the ir own account or on behalf of their clients. Banks may also trade in an over-the-counter in te rbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are more than 2,500 exchange bureaus that conduct fore ign exchange cash transactions. Based on add i t ional informa t ion on how the exchange rate is de term ined, the exchange rate of Kazakhstan has been reclassified, effective September 30, 2000, to the category managed floating w i th no predetermined path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. A 1% tax on purchases of foreign exchange by natural persons was e l im ina ted on Janua ry 1, 2000. The customs duty on foreign exchange cash imports by ju r id ical persons was set at 1% of the face value of the imported foreign exchange. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Foreign exchange fu tu res are quoted on the KASE. Forward exchange opera t ions are also performed in the in terbank market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions between residents and nonresidents may be made in any currency as long as they comply with the relevant foreign exchange regulations of the NBK. The NBK has the right to impose restrictions on the payment currency for a resident's export operations. Na tural persons may use foreign currency in Kazakhstan on ly for exchange transactions through authorized banks and authorized organizations carrying out particular k inds of banking operations. Foreign currency may be kept in foreign exchange accounts, transferred abroad, or used for settlements for goods and services sold by ju r id ical persons possessing the appropriate NBK license. Controls on the use of domestic currency Yes. For capital transactions Credit operations The settlement of tenge credits and of any other related payments ( inc lud ing interest) in foreign exchange are prohibited. Use of foreign exchange among residents All transactions between residents must be effected in tenge, unless otherwise stipulated by law. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required KAZAKHSTAN 481 No. The NBK controls the procedures for exchange transactions; supervises authorized banks and authorized institutions carrying out certain types of banking operations; regulates open foreign exchange positions; and has the authority to reintroduce surrender requirements, introduce restrictions on the currency of export proceeds, and stipulate the form of settle- ment of certain export transactions, inc lud ing volumes and remuneration rates. For the purpose of f u l f i l l i ng in terna t ional obligations, the president of the R epub l ic of Kazakhstan reserves the r ight to introduce restrictions on any fore ign exchange opera t ion. The MOF monitors government and government-guaranteed external debt. The M in is try of Energy, Industry, and Trade supervises the licensing of a limited number of imports, and exports and monitors transactions with precious metals and stones. The M in i s t ry of Government Revenue supervises the payment of export and import duties. Authorized banks and nonbank financial institutions serve as agents for foreign exchange control. No. No. The refined precious metals market has been liberalized and there are no specific restric- tions on the export of refined precious metals. Control over the foreign trade of refined precious metals, however, is maintained in the same manner as that applied to other goods. Domestic cu r rency may be exported w i thout restriction. Effective January 1, 2001, resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $10,000 (previously $3,000) without documents certifying the legal origin of the funds. Also from that date, documents must be presented to customs authorities for amounts exceeding $10,000 (previously for the entire amount). The export of foreign currency by nonresident natural persons is carried out in accordance w i th the declaration prepared by them at the t ime of entry. In the event that the amount indicated in the declara- tion is less, the nonresident is required to present documents cer t ify ing the legal o r ig in of the funds. A customs duty equ iva lent to 1% is applied to imports of fore ign currency by j u r i d i c al per- sons. In addition, nonresidents entering Kazakhstan are required to declare the imported amount of foreign exchange. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. A license from the NBK is required, w i th the exception of resident na tu ral persons tempo ra r i ly located abroad (e.g., for purposes of work, study, or medical treatment, or for human i ta r ian reasons). Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency All domestic currency accounts are convertible; however, resident ju r id i c al persons may acqu ire foreign currency on the domestic currency exchange only for purposes listed in the legislation, wh i ch was extended on Janua ry 1, 2001. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 KAZAKHSTAN Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. No. Yes. U n t il January 1, 2001, when th is restriction was l i f ted, nonresident j u r i d i c al persons cou ld acqu ire foreign currency on the domestic fore ign exchange market of Kazakhstan on ly for revenue in tenge resu l t ing from current fore ign exchange transactions. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All goods imported into Kazakhstan must be equal in va lue to the amount paid for them. If the goods are not delivered, the importer must refund the money that had been previously transferred w i th in the period established in the contract, but no later than 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days) after the date of the transfer, unless stipulated otherwise in the NBK license. A license from the NBK is requ ired for prepayments made more than 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days) in advance. A deferment of payment for a period exceeding 180 days and for an amount above the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. A transaction passport must be compiled for each import transaction in excess of the equ iva lent of $5,000, and the import transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee and an authorized bank u n t il completion. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for 12 categories of goods. Effective Ju ly 27, 2000, and Janu- ary 30, 2001, changes were made to the l ist of goods that requ ire a license for impor t. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of two categories of goods are subject to approval by the government for pub l ic health and security reasons. Effective April 1, 2000, the import of certain goods not labeled w i th product information in Kazakh or Russian was prohibited. Customs duties and excises are levied on imported goods. In te r im safeguard import du t ies were introduced on a number of imports and on certain goods for the construction and oil industries, effective Ju ly 3, 2000 (for two years) and on August 22, 2000 (for six months). On November 9, 2000, safeguard import du t ies were lev ied for six mon ths on carpets and other tex t i le floor coverings. E f fec t ive March 31, 2000, all specific t a r i f fs were converted to ad va lorem rates, except for those lev ied on a lcoho l ic beverages. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange export proceeds must be credited to the res iden t's accounts in Kazakh- stan or to accounts abroad if the appropriate license has been obtained from the NBK. Con- trol is ma in ta ined over the completeness and t ime l ine ss of the receipt of fore ign exchange export proceeds. The NBK reserves the r ight to in troduce su r render requ i remen ts at any t ime. No. Deferment of an export payment or prepayment for a period exceeding 180 days and for an amount above the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered w i th the NBK. As of Octo- ber 1, 2000 an export payment deferment for a period exceeding 120 days (prev ious ly 180 days) must be licensed by the NBK. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses KAZAKHSTAN 483 A transaction passport must be compiled for each export transaction above $5,000 or its equivalent, and the transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee and an authorized bank un t il fu ll completion. Export licenses are required for 21 categories of goods. For security and env i ronm en t al protection reasons, government approval is requ ired for the exports of three groups of goods. E f fec t ive March 13, 2000, and Janua ry 30, 2001, changes and add i t ions were made to the l ist of goods that requ i re a license for export. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Payments made by residents to nonresidents require the presentation of supporting docu- ments (contract, agreement, accord, etc.) to an authorized bank. For payments invo lv ing foreign exchange transactions that require a license or registration certificate from the NBK, resident ju r id i c al persons are also required to present copies of the relevant docu- ments to an authorized bank. Effective Janua ry 1, 2001, current transfers of the equ iva lent of $10,000 or less made by resident and nonres ident natural persons may be effected th rough an au thor ized bank w i thout open ing an account or presenting documen ta t ion. When r e in su r ing w i th a fore ign insu rer (re insurer), the proportion of the re insu red par ty's own l iab i l i ty (retention of l iab i l i ty) should represent at least 5% of the total vo lume of l iab i l i ty, provided that the reinsurer meet the requirements of the law on the m ax imum vo lume of l iab i l i t ies in respect to a separate insurance (reinsurance) agreement. A domestic res ident insurance (re insurance) organization may assign insurance r isks out- side of Kazakhstan for reinsurance to a non res ident re insurance organization d irec t ly or through a non res ident insurance broker if such organization possesses a specific ra t ing from one of the ra t ing agencies appearing on a list compiled by an authorized state body. The total amount of insu rance p r em iums paid by the assignor to non res ident re insu rance organizations, less commissions received from them by the assignor, must not exceed 85% of the total amount of insurance p rem iums received under insurance agreements (w i th cons idera t ion for those paid by re insurance organizations) w i t h in a f u ll fiscal year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Settlements concerned w i th payment of remuneration and d iv idends are not subject to li- censing. Investment operations per se are subject to licensing or registration only as opera- tions connected w i th capital movement. Repayment of loans, amortization of investments, and payment of rent on real estate are subject to licensing or registration. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Personal payments Indicative limit s/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Resident and nonresident ju r id ical persons are entitled to withdraw resources from the ir foreign exchange accounts to pay expenses connected w i th travel of a ju r id ical person's employees on foreign business trips. Cu r r ent fore ign exchange transac t ions in the fo rm of one t ime transfers by res ident and non- res ident na tu ral persons in an amount up to the equ iv a l ent of $3,000 may be effected th rough au tho r ized banks w i t h o ut open ing an account. Res ident and non re s ident j u r i d i c al persons are en t i t led to w i thdraw resources from th e ir foreign exchange accounts to pay wages to nonresidents. Payments made from resident accounts are subject to documen tary requ i remen t s; there is no such requ i rement on paymen ts from domestic non res ident accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Cred it card use abroad The use of c red it cards in fo re ign trade operations is p roh ib i ted. There is a l im i t ed l ist of transac t ions that may be made us ing corporate credit cards. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 KAZAKHSTAN Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds There are no restrictions on conversion into domestic currency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered w i th the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign corporate securities are subject to a clearance procedure for trading in Kazakhstan, entailing entry of these securities by established procedure into the National Securities Commission's (NSC) register of securities of foreign issuers. Other k inds of securities re- qu ire approval from the NSC. The purchase of securities from nonresidents by residents is subject to prior NBK licensing. Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval of the NBK is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the NSC, together with registration with the NBK, is required if the amount of issue exceeds the equivalent of $100,000. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the NSC is required for nonres iden ts. The issue of bonds of in t e rn a t ion al f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions (IFIs) made pursuant to Kazakhstani legislation are subject to state registration; IFI bonds traded in Kazakhstan do not requ i re clearance. The purchase of securities from nonresidents by residents requ ires prior NBK licensing. Purchase abroad by residents Pr ior NBK approval is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the NSC and registration with the NBK are required if the amount of issue exceeds the equ iva lent of $100,000. On money market ins trumen ts Requ i remen ts on l icens ing by or registration w i th the NBK apply on ly when these in s t ru- ments are securities according to Kazakhstani legislation and when the payment on a b i ll of exchange is deferred for a period in excess of 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days). Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered w i th the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Prior approval of the NSC and registration w i th the NBK are requ ired if the amount of issue exceeds the equ iva lent of $100,000. On collective investment securities The same regulations as for money market ins trumen ts apply to all collective inves tment securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 485 Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments The f u t u r es con tract ma rket is regu la ted by statutes of the KASE. Transactions w i th f u t u r es contracts requ i re the acqu is i t ion of access to trad ing in fu tu res contracts traded on the exchange. Purchase locally by non res iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. A license from the NBK is requ ired for operations w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days). To residents from nonresidents A registration certificate from the NBK is requ ired for operations w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days and a va lue exceeding the equ iva lent of $100,000. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A license from the NBK is required for operations w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days). A certificate of registration w i th the NBK is requ ired for credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days and in an amount exceeding the equ iva lent of $100,000. Effec t ive October 1, 2000, an NBK license is required in order for credit extended to a resident by a nonresident to be loaned to a th i rd party. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Guarantees or sureties w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days (as of October 1, 2000, 120 days) mu st be l icensed or registered as an opera t ion connected w i th the ex tens ion or a cqu i s i t ion of c red i t. Controls on direct inve s tment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Residents must obtain a license from the NBK to invest abroad. A certificate of registration from the NBK is required for residents to attract foreign inves tmen ts in excess of the e q u i v a l e nt of $100,000. Re inves tmen ts do not requ i re repatriation or l icens ing. Transfers of funds from residents to nonresidents for real estate are subject to NBK l icens ing. Transfers of funds in excess of $100,000 from nonresidents to residents for real estate are subject to NBK registration. The sale of real estate to a resident by a nonresident on the local market is subject to NBK l icens ing. C red i ts by res iden ts to non r e s id en ts in fo re ign cu r rency for a term of more than 180 days (effec t ive October 1, 2000, 120 days) are subject to l icens ing w i th the NBK. C r ed i ts by non re s iden ts to residents for a term of more than 180 days and in an amount equ iva lent to more than $100,000 are subject to registration w i th the NBK. Transfer of gamb l ing and pr ize earn ings These transfers are subject to documen ta t ion requ iremen ts. Prov is ions spec if ic to comm e r c ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Bo r row ing abroad Reg i s t ra t ion w i th the NBK is requ i red to receive credits for a term of more than 180 days and in an amount exceeding the equ iv a l ent of $100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 KAZAKHSTAN Ma in tenance of accounts abroad A NBK-issued bank ing license is requ i red to open a correspondent account. An NBK license a l low ing the open ing of accounts abroad is requ ired to open accounts for representative offices of banks. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) A license from the NBK is requ ired when ex tend ing credit for a term of more than 180 days (effec t ive October 1, 2000, 120 days). Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Authorized banks are entitled to provide credits in foreign currency to resident and non- resident ju r id ical persons on ly in noncash form. Foreign exchange settlement of credits received in tenge and the remune ra t ion thereof are proh ib i ted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Payments by residents are effected on ly in tenge, regardless of the cu r rency in wh ich the securities are denominated. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Investments abroad by resident banks are l im i ted by the ratio set for the placement of eq- u i ty capital in domestic assets. Bank inves tmen ts are subject to l i c en s ing by the NBK. Representative offices of nonresident banks may be opened w i th the consent of the NBK. The opening of branches of foreign banks in Kazakhstan is prohibited. The open ing of a subs id iary nonres ident bank and the acqu is i t ion of more than 50% of the stocks of a resident bank by a nonres ident bank is possible, provided that the non res ident bank 's representative office has been in operation domes t ica l ly for one year or longer. Nonresident ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing banks, that acquire 5% or more of the stocks of a resident bank, and non res ident banks es tab l ish ing or possessing subs id iary banks in Kazakhstan, must have a m i n im um requ i red ra t ing that is not below the rating awarded to Kazakhstan by one of the in te rna t ional rating agencies. This requ i rement also app l ies to acqu is i t ion of more than 50% of the stocks of a resident bank by non res ident banks. The fo l low ing requ i remen ts must be observed in the creation and ac t iv i ty of banks w i th fore ign par t ic ipa t ion: (1) The total announced authorized capital of banks w i th foreign participation may not exceed 50% of the total announced authorized capital of all Kazakhstani banks, except in cases permitted by the NBK. (2) At least one member of the supervisory board of a bank w i th foreign participation must be a citizen of Kazakhstan who has worked in an executive capacity for not less than three years in a bank operating in Kazakhstan and have knowledge of Kazakhstani bank ing and business legislation. (3) A bank w i th foreign participation is required to place resources in domestic assets in an amount and in accordance w i th procedures established by the NBK — the list of domestic assets is established by the NBK. The NBK has a r ight to impose add i t ional requ i remen ts on banks w i th fore ign par t ic ipa t ion in respect to the makeup of the ir governing bodies, the list of bank ing operations they may perform, pruden t ial standards, other b ind ing rules and l im i ts, and reporting procedures. Ju r id i c al persons registered in offshore zones or h av ing aff i l ia ted persons registered in off- shore zones, or na tu ral persons who are participants (founders, shareholders) of ju r id ical persons registered in offshore zones, the list of wh ich is established by the NBK, may not be founders or shareholders of resident banks. A nonres ident bank that is the founder of or participant in a bank is requ i red to subm i t, in addition to other necessary documents, w r i t ten con f i rma t ion from a bank supervisory body of the relevant state that the bank possesses a current bank ing license and that the bank is subject to supervision on a consolidated basis. A non res ident j u r i d i c al or na tu ral person who is a founder of a bank is requ i red to append to an application for a pe rm it to open a bank — in addition to other necessary documen ts— (i) informa t ion on the participation of the bank in the authorized capital of other banks and f inanc ial organizations and ( i i) a wr i t ten statement from an authorized body (for nonresi- dent banks, a bank superv is ing body) of the relevant state to the effect that the person is allowed to participate in the au thor ized capital of a Kazakhs tani res ident bank or a state- ment from an authorized body (for non res ident banks, a bank sup e rv i s ing body) of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open foreign exchange position limits KAZAKHSTAN 487 relevant state to the effect that such perm iss ion is not requ ired by law in the state of th is founder. The (long or short) foreign exchange l im it should be no more than 30% of a bank's equity capital; the net foreign exchange position l im it should be 50% of a bank 's equity capital; and the long foreign exchange position l im it for currenc ies of coun tr ies that are not members of the OECD should be 5% of a bank 's equity capital. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Effec t ive Ju ly 20, 2000, pension asset management companies may request a license to engage in capital account transactions. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Limits (min .) on investment portfolio held locally Pension asset-management companies may place the pension assets under th e ir inves tment management in the fo l low ing devices in the fo l low ing amounts: (1) not more than 10% of the pension assets of each separate nonstate funded pension fund may be he ld in IFI securi- ties and (2) not more than 10% of the pension assets of each separate nonstate funded pen- sion fund may be he ld in nongovernment securities of foreign issuers. The state-funded pens ion fund has a r ight to place up to 10% of the total vo lume of pension assets in MOF securities. Pension asset-management companies are required to place not less than 40% of the pen- sion assets of each separate nonstate funded pension fund under investment management in Kazakhstani government securities ( inc lud ing ones issued in compliance with legislation of other states), except for securities issued by local executive bodies of Kazakhstan. The state-funded pension fund is subject to the same regulations, with the exception that the limit is not less than 50% of total pension assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws A license is requ ired to conduct professional activities on the securities market and stock exchanges. Exchange arrangement January 1. The 1% tax on purchases of fore ign exchange was e l im ina ted. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds September 30. Based on additional information on how the exchange rate is determined, the exchange rate of Kazakhstan was reclassified to the category managed floating with no predetermined path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. March 31. All specific ta r i f fs were converted to ad valorem rates, except for those lev ied on alcoholic beverages. April 1. The import of certain goods not labeled with product information in Kazakh or Russian was prohibited. July 3. In te r im safeguard import duties were introduced on certain goods for two years. July 2~*. Changes were made to the list of goods that requ ire a license for import. August 22. In te r im safeguard import duties were introduced on certain goods for six mon ths. October I. Deferment of repayment for imports for a term of more than 120 days is sub ject to l icens ing by the NBK. November 9. In te r im safeguard import duties were introduced for six mon ths on carpets and other textile floor coverings. March 13. Changes and add i t ions were made to the list of goods that requ i re a license for export. October 1. Export payment deferment for a period exceeding 120 days requ ires an NBK license (the prev ious l im it was 180 days). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 KAZAKHSTAN Capital transactions Controls on credit operations October 1. An NBK license is required in order for credit extended to a resident by a nonresident to be loaned to a th i rd party Provisions specific to institutional investors July 20. Pension asset management companies were allowed to request a license to engage in capital account transactions. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts January 1. Resident na tural persons may export foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 (previously $3,000) without documents certifying the legal origin of the funds. Further, documents must be presented to customs authorities for amounts exceeding $10,000 (previously for the entire amount). January L The list stipulating the transactions for which resident jur id ical persons may buy foreign exchange on the domestic currency market was extended. January 1. Nonresident ju r id ical persons were no longer l im i ted to acqu i r ing foreign cur- rency on the domestic foreign exchange market of Kazakhstan only for revenue in tenge resulting from current foreign exchange transactions. Imports and import payments January 30. Changes were made to the list of goods that requ i re a license for impor t. Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January 30. Changes and add i t ions were made to the list of goods that requ i re a license for export. January L Current transfers of the equ iva lent of $10,000 or less made by resident and nonresident na tural persons may be effected through an authorized bank w i thout open ing an account or presenting documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31. 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: J u ne 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kenya is the Kenya s h i l l i n g. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Managed floating w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control The exchange rate is de te rm ined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bu reaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign trave ler's checks. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate. The dollar is the pr inc ipal in terven t ion currency. The o f f ic ial exchange rate app l ies on ly to government and governmen t- guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for wh ich there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts w i th t h e ir customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of the ir choice. There are no l im i ts on the amount or period of cover. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Kenya is a member of COMESA and the EAC. The Central Bank Act gives the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) powers to license and regulate fore ign exchange transactions. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 KENYA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures A copy of the import declaration, a f inal invoice, and a copy of the customs entry must be submitted. An inspection is required for all imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $5,000 or its equivalent. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a clean report of findings. Banks are allowed to effect clean payments (for imports) provided they obtain a pledge from the importer to submit the documents at a later date. Negative list The list inc ludes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Import taxes and /or tar i f fs State import monopo ly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requ irements F inan c ing requirements Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas Coffee, tea, and ho r t icu l tu ral produce may be exported on ly if a sales contract is registered w i th the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Hor t icu l tural Crops Development Au tho r i ty, respec- t ive ly. Exports of certain foods and agricultural products require special licenses to ensure adequate supp l ies in the domestic market. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 491 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts are allowed to purchase a m ax imum of 40% of shares of p r ima ry or secon- dary issues. A nonresident may not purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or primary issues. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There is no control on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, the issue of securi- ties by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts The same regu la t ions app ly as for securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for securities of a participating na ture. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of money market instruments abroad by residents requires pr ior approval by the CBK. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK approval is requ i red for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 KENYA Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Foreign exchange exposure may not exceed 20% of an ins t i tu t ion 's core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of K i r iba ti is the Aus tra l ian do l lar. A small number of K ir iba ti coins is also in c ircu la t ion. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate There is no central monetary ins t i tu t ion, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign legal tender exchange. The Bank of K ir iba ti (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes daily rates for 15 currencies on the basis of the ir respective values against the Aus tra l ian dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The BOK provides forward contracts of up to three months of ma tu r i ty. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in Australian currency or in any other cur- rency. Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with the BOK, the on ly authorized foreign exchange dealer. n.a. n.a. No. No. No. No. Only authorized dealers are permitted to own or trade in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 KIRIBATI Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Yes. n .r. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. n .r. Negative l ist Imports of certain goods are prohibited for health, safety, or env i ronmen tal reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. n .r. Export licenses Export taxes Copra may be exported on ly through the K i r iba ti Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Informa t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds n.r. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI 495 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions These transactions are covered by the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments All capital and money market ins t rument transactions are controlled. All de r iva t ive and other ins t rument transactions are controlled. Controls on credit operations All credit operations are con tro l led. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment The au thor i t ies encourage investments in the export-promoting or impo r t -subs t i tu t ing sec- tors. All app l ica t ions for fore ign inves tment up to $A 250,000 must be made to the Foreign Inves tment Commission for approval. App l ica t ions w i th a larger capital con t r ibu t ion are approved by the Cabinet. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment n .r. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Non res iden ts are not permitted to purchase land or real estate. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal cap ital movements Yes. n .r. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Legislation related to bank ing and p ruden t ial regu la t ions related to l end ing and f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions are cu r ren t ly being fo rmu la ted. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. n . r. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Korea is the Korean won. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requ irements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exchange rate of the won is determined on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, fu tu res transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as we ll as between the won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th other countries may be made in any convertible currency except the won. Nonresidents are permitted to carry out current transactions denom ina ted in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For th is purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for current transactions as we ll as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic securities. n.a. n.a. No. The M in is t ry of F inance and Economy (MOFE) in i t ia tes po l icy w i th respect to p resc r ip t ion of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes most of the above func t ion s; it also regulates the operations of the exchange market and may in tervene in it. No. No. Residents are allowed to import and export gold other than gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regu la t ions as those applied to merchandise trade. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, banknotes in excess of the equ iva lent of $10,000 may be exported without permission from the BOK, but with notification to the tax authority. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency REPUBLIC OF KOREA 497 Effective January 1, 2001, banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 may be exported without specific permission by reporting the transaction to the BOK. Upon leaving Korea, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency up to the amount they have sold du r ing the ir stay in Korea. Residents and nonresidents must no t i fy the customs off ice of domestic currency they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Residents and nonresidents must no t i fy the customs office of foreign currency they b r ing into Korea if the amount exceeds the equ iva lent of $10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed w i thout restriction. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset d ivers if ica t ion pur- poses without a quantitative ceiling. Un t il January 1, 2001, general corporations and ind i- v idua ls were permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to $5 m i l l ion and $50,000 a year, respectively. On that date, these l im i ts were replaced w i th a requirement to no t i fy a foreign exchange bank. However, the BOK must be notified of overseas remittances by ind iv idua ls that exceed $50,000 a day. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Remittances from these accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and w i thdrawa ls of fore ign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Approval required Effective January 1, 2001, the establishment of such deposits and trust accounts of less than a one-year maturity no longer requires BOK permission. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures About 4,000 products are subject to special import approval procedures, mostly for health and other reasons, under the regulation on import notices. Negative list Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas U n t il January 1, 2001, when th is was abolished, eight ten-digit items in the Harmonized System were subject to licenses. A trade comm iss ion may recommend quotas and qua l i ty standards if it has determined that certain imports have harmed domestic indus tr ies. Un t il May 20, 2000, when they were e l im ina ted, there were four quotas on m i lk products. Import taxes and /or tar i f fs There are ad jus tment ta r i f fs on 38 products. There are an t idump ing du t ies on 14 products. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Yes. State impo rt monopo ly There is a state monopo ly on the import of 18 agricultural products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Export earn ings exceeding $50,000 must be repatriated to Korea w i t h in six months. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, export earnings of the equ iva lent of $50,000 or less may be used for overseas transactions as long as the ir use adheres to the foreign exchange transaction regu la t ions. F inan c ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes There are export bans for environmental reasons on 13 six-digit items from the Harmonized System. There are quotas und er the ATC and vo lun tary restraint on four six-digit Harmonized System items. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related paymen ts Prior approval Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance was subject to pr ior approval. Effective January 1, 2001, these transfers may be effected on ly w i th BOK no t i f ica t ion. The mon th ly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days was $10,000. For those staying abroad over one year, a remittance of $50,000 ( inc lud ing basic travel allow- ances) was allowed w i t h in two months after the t ime of departure. Effective January 1, 2001, the l im it on payments for travel was l i f ted and replaced w i th a system whereby banks report these transactions to the tax authorities. U n t il January 1, 2001, when these l im i ts were l if ted and replaced w i th a system whereby banks report these transactions to the tax authorities, residents traveling abroad were al- lowed, in general, to purchase foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a t r ip as the ir basic travel allowance; additional foreign exchange could also be purchased for speci- fied expenses, in c lud ing transportation costs. U n t il January 1, 2001, when these l im i ts were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th a bank report- ing system, the basic mon th ly allowance for students under 20 years old was $3,000, and for students with a dependent fam i ly, an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each ch i ld was allowed. Further, residents were allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C red it card use abroad Quantitative limits REPUBLIC OF KOREA 499 to t h e ir paren ts and ch i ld r en l i v i ng abroad for l i v i ng expenses and to the ir re la t ives abroad for w e d d i ng g i f ts or fun e r al donations, w i th no res tr ic t ions on the n um b er of remittances. U n t il J anu a ry 1, 2001, when th is l im it was e l im in a t ed and replaced w i th a bank repor t ing system, residents were a l lowed to make paymen ts abroad by credit card for expend i tures r e l a t ing to travel and tou r i sm; for amoun ts exceeding $5,000 a mon th, the au then t ic i ty of the paymen ts had to be ve r i f ied by the fore ign exchange au thor i t ies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Su r render r equ i r em en ts Proceeds from i n v i s i b le transac t ions in excess of $50,000 need to be repatriated to Korea w i t h in six mon ths of accrua l. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, proceeds of the equ iv a l ent of $50,000 or less may be used for overseas transac t ions as long as they adhere to the fore ign exchange transaction regu la t ions. Re s iden ts are pe rm i t ted to ho ld fore ign currency earned from i n v i s i b le transactions, but once converted in to won, a l im it app l ies to reconvers ion. Residents and non res iden ts mu st n o t i fy the customs off ice of domestic and fore ign exchange they b r ing into Korea if the amount exceeds the equ iv a l ent of $10,000. Domestic f i rms engaged in in te rna t ional con- struction and service businesses may deposit abroad up to 30% of the amount of foreign cu r rency acqu ired in the p rev ious year or $3 m i l l i o n, wh i ch ev er is greater. Restr ict ions on use of funds No. Controls on cap i tal tran sac t ions Controls on cap i tal and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Capital Transactions Cap i tal t ransac t ions are con t ro l led, based on a nega t ive l ist system. Proceeds f rom cap i tal t ransac t ions in excess of $50,000 need to be repatriated to Korea w i t h in six mon ths of ac- c rua l. E f f e c t ive J anu a ry 1, 2001, proceeds of the equ iv a l ent of $50,000 or less may be used for other overseas transac t ions as long as they adhere to the foreign exchange transac t ion regu la t ions. Foreign i n s t i t u t i o ns are e l i g i b le to l i st th e ir shares on the Korean Stock Exchange (KSE) in the fo rm of depos i tary receipts. These in s t i tu t ions i n c l u de in te rna t ional f in an c i al organiza- t ion s, cen tral or m u n i c i p al governmen ts, p u b l ic organizations, and general compan ies. Foreign i n s t i t u t i o ns may issue won -denom ina ted bonds in the domestic capital marke t. However, the issuer must subm it a p r ior report to the MOFE and the F inanc ial Super- v iso ry Coun c il (FSC). Non res iden ts are requ i red to obtain a pe rm it before issu ing won- denom ina ted bonds w i th ma tur i t ies of less than one year. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts The sale or issuance abroad by res iden ts must be reported to the MOFE before the transac- t i on is carr ied out. On money ma rket in s t r um en ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On ly the issuance of won-denominated securities w i th a maturity of less than one year requ i res MOFE app rova l. Purchase abroad by residents Pu rcha se of shor t- term secu r i t ies abroad d enom in a t ed in won requ i res MOFE approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls for fo re ign exchange banks to issue money market in s t rum en ts de- nom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency in fo re ign money markets. On ly issues by en terpr ises w i th u n s o u nd f in an c i al s t ruc tu res requ i re MOFE app rova l. Res iden ts may issue money ma rket in s t rum en ts denom ina ted in won in the fo re ign money ma rke ts w i th the app roval of the MOFE. On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Fore ign i n s t i t u t i o ns may issue co l lec t ive inve s tment s e cu r i t i es in the domes t ic marke t, p rov ided that the fo re ign i n s t i t u t i o ns es tab l ish themse lves in Korea. However, th is is not requ i red for the issue of co l l e c t ive inv e s tm ent secu r i t ies by fo re ign i n v e s tm e nt t ru st comp an i es that inve st t h e ir f u n ds ex c lu s iv e ly in fo re ign secur i t ies. In the case of the issue of co l lec t ive inv e s tm ent secu r i t ies, the issuer must s u bm it a p r ior report to the FSC. Acco rd ing to the Foreign Exchange Transac t ion Regu la t ion, res iden ts may issue co l lec t ive i n v e s tm e nt s e cu r i t i es d enom in a t ed in fore ign currency in fo re ign markets. However, the issuer must s u bm it a p r ior report to the des igna ted exchange bank. Re s iden ts may issue co l l e c t ive inv e s tm ent secu r i t ies denom ina ted in domes t ic cu r rency in fo re ign ma rke ts w i th the app roval of the MOFE. Acco rd ing to the Secu r i t ies Inv e s tm ent T rust Company Act, the deed shou ld be approved by the FSC; howeve r, the standard deed has o n ly to be reported to the FSC. Controls on der iva t ives and other in s trumen ts There are no con tro ls on the t rad ing of over the counter-related d e r iv a t iv es if the transac- t ions are made th rough domes t ic fo r e ign exchange banks. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts There are con t ro ls on a ll d e r i v a t i ve t ran sac t ions by non re s iden ts i n v o l v i ng the use of won- d enom in a t ed f i n a n c i n g. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Yes. Controls on cred it opera t ions Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Comm e r c i al c red i ts in domes t ic cu r rency of more than W 100 m i l l i on a bo r rower that are g ran ted by i n s t i t u t i o n al inves to rs r equ i re MOFE app rova l. E f f e c t ive J a n u a ry 1, 2001, t h is l i m it was raised to W 1 b i l l i o n. In a d d i t i o n, comme rc ial c red i ts in fo r e ign cu r r en cy gran ted by general t r ad ing compan ies of mo re than $10 m i l l i o n, and by other en te rp r ises of mo re th an $300,000, r e q u i re MOFE app rova l. To residents from nonresidents O n ly comme rc ial c red i ts w i th m a t u r i t i es of one year or less gran ted to en te rp r i ses w i th u n s o u nd f i n a n c i al s t ru c tu r es r e q u i re MOFE app rova l. F inanc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents C red i ts and loans denom ina ted in domes t ic currency of more than W 100 m i l l i on a borrower r equ i re MOFE approva l. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, t h is l i m it was raised to W 1 b i l l i on and the approval a u t h o r i ty was changed to the BOK. To residents from nonresidents O n ly f i n a n c i al c red i ts w i th a m a t u r i ty of one year or less granted to en terpr ises w i th u n s o u nd f i n a n c i al s t ruc tu res r equ i re MOFE app rova l. Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents Res iden ts, o ther than banks, mu st ob ta in app roval f rom the BOK, except for the f o l l ow i ng cases: ( 1) wh en a fo re ign impo r ter is gran ted an o f fsho re loan by a fo re ign exchange b ank to f in an ce impo r ts from a res iden t, and said re s ident p ledges a guaran tee in fo re ign cu r- rency; (2) wh en a res ident conc ludes a con tract gua ran tee ing pe r fo rmance or bea r ing r e s p o n s i b i l i ty for the l i a b i l i t i es assumed by the non res iden t, who in t u rn is p r o v i d i ng a guaran tee, such as bid bonds or o ther sureties, related to in te rna t ional b ids or contracts en tered in to by a res iden t; and (3) wh en res iden ts p rov ide guarantees to serve as co l la teral for spot f i n a n c i n g. The re a re no con t ro ls on the p r o v i s i on of u n d e rw r i t t en backup f a c i l i t i es by domes t ic i n s t i t u t i o n al inve s to rs w h en they pa r t ic ipa te in an i n t e r n a t i o n al u n d e r w r i t i ng synd ica te. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment REPUBLIC OF KOREA 501 Under current regulations, no t if ica t ion to a fore ign exchange bank is requ ired. However, investments in excess of $10 m i l l i on requ ire pr ior no t i f ica t ion to the MOFE when ( 1) the l iab i l i t ies of the parent company exceed its total assets, i.e., it has negative net worth; or (2) the subsidiary had a negative net worth greater than $100 m i l l i on or half of its capital or shows a con t inuous five-year def ic i t, exc lud ing the accounting year when the bus iness started to operate. For investments in excess of $50 m i l l ion, prior assessment is also required when the total investment amount of a parent company exceeds its issued capital or half of its total capital and reserves. Equ i ty participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in new ly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is also al- lowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a fore ign enterprise, approval from the FSC is required for f inanc ial institutions; notification to foreign ex- change banks is required for nonfmancial institutions and for the establishment of an office. Investments in pub l ic utilities, radio, and television are restricted. Direct investments are allowed in all indus tr ies, except those specified on a "negative" l i s t, inc lud ing about 0.4% of all indus tr ies listed in the Korean standard indu s t r i al classification. Direct inves tment is allowed in all of the indus t r ies in the manu fac tu r ing sector. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships w i th local firms. There are no controls on the max imum value of foreign investment. Tax p r iv i- leges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that involve advanced technology. Postinvestment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in indu s t r ies on the negative list, are subject to a no t if ica t ion requ i remen t. A no t if ica t ion is deemed accepted by a fo re ign exchange bank un less it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate necessary for business activities of enterprises. However, neither approval nor notification is required for the ac- quisition of overseas real estate by foreign exchange banks or residents if g iven as gifts or through inheritance from nonresidents. Effective January 1, 2001, notification to the BOK is requ ired for the acqu is i t ion of real estate and its associated rights other than real estate acquired from nonres iden ts. How- ever, the acqu is i t ion of real estate w i th imported funds requires no t if ica t ion to a fo re ign exchange bank. No controls apply if the real estate was acquired in compliance w i th fore ign exchange regulations. Effective January 1, 2001, these loans must be approved by the BOK (prev ious ly by the MOFE). To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents U n t il January 1, 2001, payments that exceeded $5,000 had to be approved by the Gove rnor of the BOK. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies required p r ior approval from the BOK. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, these transactions were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 REPUBLIC OF KOREA To residents from nonresidents No t if ica t ion to the BOK is requ ired for real estate acquired through inher i tance or as a g i ft from nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants The ce i l ing for emigration settlement expenses was $400,000 for a head of household and $200,000 a person for members of a household. After obtaining nationality, the emigrant was a l lowed to w i thd raw the rema in ing domestic properties. Effective January 1, 2001, these l im i ts were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th a bank reporting system. Provisions spec i f ic to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions There are p ruden t ial regu la t ions on the assets/liabilities compositions of foreign exchange banks. Foreign exchange banks should ma in ta in short-term assets (less than three months) of at least 80% (prior to June 10, 2000, 70%) of short-term liabilities and long-term borrowing (more than three years) in excess of 50% of long-term assets. Foreign exchange banks shou ld ma in ta in positive ma tu r i ty mismatches from sight to seven days. Any negative mismatch shou ld not exceed 10% of total foreign currency assets from sight to one month. For reference, the foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the f u n d i ng of maturities of one year or more and for amounts exceeding $50 m i l l ion. Credits and loans of more than W 100 m i l l i on a borrower denominated in domestic cur- rency and granted by in s t i tu t ional investors require MOFE approval. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, th is l im it was raised to W 1 b i l l i on and approval was shifted to the BOK. Borrowing abroad L end ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange There are no controls on loan ceilings, but there are some restrictions on the use of loans. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Reserve requ i remen ts on foreign currency deposit accounts are 7% for resident accounts and 1 % for nonres ident accounts. The overall net open position (short-hand position) of foreign exchange banks measured by the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions, wh ichever is greater, is l im i ted to 20% of the total equ i ty capital at the end of the previous mon th. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls imposed by the Securities Laws established by the FSC are as follows: (1) domes- tic securities investments by nonresident foreign nationals are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, wh ich include investment ceilings, investment procedures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include securities' e l ig ib i l i ty for investment and transaction procedures, etc.; and (3) issuance of overseas securities by resi- dents is regulated by the Regulations on Securities Issuance and Disclosure, which inc lude the e l ig ib i l i ty of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting, etc. Impor ts and impo rt payments May 20. The four quotas on m i lk products were e l im ina ted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 503 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Foreign currency banknotes in excess of the equ iva lent of $10,000 were allowed to be exported without specific permission by reporting the transaction to the BOK. Changes During 2001 Res ident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 1. Domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 were allowed to be exported w i thout perm iss ion from the BOK, but w i th no t if ica t ion to the tax authority. January 1. The l im i ts on deposits abroad that may be held by general corporations and ind iv idua ls were replaced with a requirement to no t ify a foreign exchange bank. January J. The establishment of domestic currency accounts of less than a one-year ma tur i ty no longer required BOK permission. January J. The license requirements on some items in the Harmonized System were abolished. January J. Export earnings of the equ iva lent of $50,000 or less may be used for other overseas transactions as long as their use adheres to the foreign exchange transaction regulations. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January J. The l im i ts on payments for trave l, personal payments, and credit card use abroad were lifted and replaced w i th a bank reporting system. January 1. The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance require p r ior BOK no t i f ica t ion. Proceeds from in v i s ib le transac t ions and current transfers January 1. Proceeds of the equ iva lent of $50,000 or less may be used for other overseas transactions as long as they adhere to the foreign exchange transaction regulations. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on real estate transactions January J. Proceeds of the equ iva lent of $50,000 or less may be used for overseas transac- t ions as long as they adhere to the foreign exchange transaction regulations. January J. The l im it for commercial or financial credits and loans in domestic currency granted by institutional investors that require MOFE approval was raised to W 1 b i l l ion. In add i t ion, commerc ial credits in foreign currency granted by general trading companies of more than $10 m i l l ion, and by other enterprises of more than $300,000, require MOFE approval. January 1. No t i f ica t ion to the BOK is requ ired for the acquisition of real estate and its as- sociated rights other than real estate acquired from nonresidents. However, the acquisition of real estate w i th imported funds requ ires no t if ica t ion to a foreign exchange bank. Controls on personal capital movemen ts January 1. The controls on the transfer of assets abroad by emigrants were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th a bank reporting system. January 1. Personal capital movemen ts invo lv ing gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies were l ibe ra l ized. January J. Loans by residents to nonresidents have to be approved by the BOK. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ap r il 5, 1963. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwa i ti dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The external value of the dinar is determined on the basis of a special weighted basket of currencies of Kuwa i t 's trade and f inanc ial partners. The Central Bank of Kuwa it (CBK) sets the exchange rate vis-a-vis the do l lar on the basis of the latest market quotations in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. GCC central banks maintain a regional arrangement to exchange GCC banknotes. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Adm in istrat ion of control There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign exchange. All trade with Israel is prohibited. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. In terna t ional security restrictions Foreign exchange restrictions are imposed on Iraq and the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan). In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. No. Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry (MCI) may import and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufac tured or unmanu fac tu red, are subject to an import du ty of 4%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 505 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh f ru i ts and vegeta- bles. Licenses, except for wheat and f lour, are issued freely to registered Kuwa i ti merchants and companies. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen, a f i rm in wh ich all partners are Kuwa i ti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in wh ich Kuwa i ti nationals own at least 51% of the stock. The importation of oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders is prohibited. Imports of indu s t r ial equ ipmen t, mach inery, and the ir spare parts requ i re indu s t r ial licenses va l id for onetime use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed indus tr ial estab- l ishmen ts w i th the approval of the Indus t r ial Development Commission at the MCI. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under ind iv idu al or specific licenses. Regis- tered importers h and l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license v a l id for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for i n d i v i d u al commodities, wh i ch are also v a l id for one year. Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price marg in of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries, and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. Kuwa it applie s the un i fo rm ta r i ff s t ruc tu re of the GCC. A m i n im um tar iff of 4% app l ies to non-GCC imports, w h i le no ta r i f fs apply to imports w i th at least 40% local va lue added from othe r GCC members. Imports of foodstuffs, as we ll as some mach inery and equ ip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Kuwa it applies h igher ta r i f fs in indus tr ies where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local market. Tariff rates d i f f er depend ing on the domestic value-added content of the products in ques- t ion. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic va lue added , protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing imports. The degree of protection given by the fo rmu la is reduced by 5% in the case of consumer goods. The max imum duty imposed on products that compete w i th locally manufactured goods is 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 KUWAIT State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and poultry, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, m i lk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Exports of arms and ammun i t ion also require licenses. W i th quotas Expo rt taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwait Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls apply to banks and financial institutions subject to CBK supervision. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 507 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. No. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwa i t; foreign participation in new Kuwa i ti companies must be 49% or less. The participation of GCC nationals in companies established in Kuwa it may reach up to 75% of the capital, and there are no restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only GCC nationals may purchase real estate of up to 3,000 square meters for private residence purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Yes. No. Borrowing abroad Controls apply to the sale or issue of bonds or other debt securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits may not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and in some cases, lower l im i ts are set. Provisions spec i f ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Kyrgyz som. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate of the som against the dollar is defined as the average-weighted exchange rate of interbank foreign exchange market transactions for the week. The Na- tional Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) participates and intervenes in the interbank foreign exchange market as necessary. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements, and settlements may be made in any currency. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements There are agreements or settlement procedures with countries of the FSU. Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Yes. There are agreements with the Interstate Bank and the Central Asian Bank for Cooperation and Development. The NBKR has responsibility for managing its gold and foreign exchange reserves. The som is fu l ly convertible for current payments and transfers with no restrictions on buying, selling, or holding foreign currencies. The NBKR is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. No. No. All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBKR have priority in purchasing and also a right to participate as sellers. If the government and the NBKR do not exercise that right, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 509 Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but, according to the Law on Operations in Foreign Exchange, effective Ju ly 12, 2000, such accounts must be registered with the NBKR for statistical purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Balances of som accounts opened in Kyrgyz banks are subject to statistical recording. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs The list applies to all products. This list includes weapons; ammun i t ion; explosives; poisons; psychotropic narcotics; publications, photographs, negatives, exposed film, video recordings, and graphic works containing information that may harm the political and economic interests of the Republic, state security, or public order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by Kyrgyz law. OGLs are issued for periods required for export and import operations, up to a max imum of one calendar year. Imports of precious stones and metals, narcotics, poisons, toxic waste, pesticides, medicines, medical equipment, m i l i tary and c iv i l ian weapons, tobacco, alcohol, and alcoholic products are subject to licensing. Quotas are applied on imports of alcohol and alcoholic products. Excise taxes apply to ethyl alcohol (wood and grain), alcoholic goods, tobacco products, jewelry made of precious stones and metals, crystal products, clothing made from fur and skins, gas-operated arms and firearms, petroleum products, coffee, cocoa, and rugs. On January 1, 2000, the Customs Tariff for 2000 entered into force, whereby imports are subject to customs duties at the rates of zero, 10%, 17.5%, and 20% of the va lue of the product. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of leaf tobacco, fermented tobacco, and nonferrous metal waste and scrap are sub- ject to licensing. The list of items prohibited for export includes: weapons; ammun i t ion; explosives; poisons; psychotropic narcotics; publications, photographs, negatives, exposed f i lm, video recordings, and graphic works containing informa t ion that may harm the politi- cal and economic interests of the Repub l ic, state security, or pub l ic order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by Kyrgyz law. Yes. There were temporary export duties of 100% on wheat, grain, and m i lk, and a customs duty ranging from $0.20-$0.30 per k i logram on a range of other agricultural commodities, inc lud ing cotton, tobacco, wool, and other products. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, all these du t ies were e l im ina ted. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Control is exercised by the National Securities Market Commission (GKRTsB) und er the government of the Kyrgyz Repub l ic, except for the fo l low ing: checks; debt securities of state and local governments; other securities issued or guaranteed by the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, by the NBKR, or by local state authorities; bank certificates (except those meeting the requirements for emission of securities); b i l ls of exchange; and any documented payment obligations arising in the course of usual business activities and valid for a period not exceeding one year. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents The issuer is obliged to provide the GKRTsB with information on the acquisition by any person of a share in its statutory capital exceeding 5% and/or 5% of its stock shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents For sales, the same regulations apply as for purchases in the country by nonresidents. Nonresidents are not allowed to issue shares in the country. Purchase abroad by residents No. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to sale or issue, secur i t ies must be registered w i th the GKRTsB. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance and c i rcu la t ion of corporate bonds are regulated by the GKRTsB. Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents No. Sale or issue abroad by residents Secur i t ies mu st be registered w i th the GKRTsB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 511 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the GKRTsB; in the case of government securities and in terbank transactions, these must be reported to the NBKR. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. Sale or issue abroad by residents Securities must be registered w i th the GKRTsB. On collective investment securities Securities invested in joint-stock investment funds and mu tual funds are regulated; the operations of other funds are not presently regulated. Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to their sale or issue abroad, securities must be registered w i th the GKRTsB. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment There is cu r ren t ly no market in these instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no controls on these transactions; however, all economic entities must report commercial (trade) credits received and issued to statistical agencies. The MOF keeps track of the state's external debt. In the event that a guarantee of the government of the Kyrgyz Republic is provided, credits must be registered with the MOF. The government does not keep informa t ion on private borrowings abroad. All direct investment enterprises must be registered w i th the Ministry of Justice and statistical agencies. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the M in is try of Justice. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Maintenance of accounts abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Locally issued securities must be denominated in local currency. However, the use of foreign currency, or of payment documents in foreign currency, is permitted in certain instances and according to procedures established by legislation. Investment regulations Abroad by banks These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC In banks by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts L im i ts are established by the NBKR. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investment funds are not permitted to invest, locally or abroad, more than 10% of the ir total assets in the securities of a single issuer or to hold more than 25% of the securities of a single issuer. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Resident accounts July 12. A regulation was adopted that stipulates foreign exchange accounts must be registered with the NBKR. Imports and import payments January 1. The Customs Tariff for 2000 entered in to force, whereby imports are subject to customs duties at the rates of zero, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The temporary export duties were e l im ina ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Lao kip. A l though no t expressly permitted legally, the Thai baht and the do l lar are w ide ly held and used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: a rate set by the commercial banks and a parallel market rate. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided the spread between buy ing and sell- ing rates remains less than 2%. In practice, however, la Banque pour le commerce exterieur du Laos (BCEL), the major state-owned commercial bank and the dom inant transactor in the off ic ial exchange market, sets the commercial bank exchange rate taking into account movements in the parallel market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements is imposed on receipts or payments but, in princi- ple, the Bank of the Lao P.D.R. (BOL), the central bank, provides and accepts only dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. n.a. n.a. A bilateral payment agreement is in effect w i th Vietnam. An inoperative bilateral payment agreement exists w i th Malaysia. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trad ing arrangements are ma in ta ined w i th Ch ina and Vietnam. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control O f f ic ial transac t ion s are hand led by the BOL. The M in is try of Commerce (MOC) grants import and export au thor iza t ion to state trad ing companies, jo int ventures between domes- tic enterprises and foreign investors, cooperatives, and other p u b l ic and private enterprises. International security restrictions Payment arrear s n.a. n.a. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold and s i lver requ ire BOL authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Exports of domestic currency requ i re BOL au thor iza t ion. Residents trave l ing abroad may take out foreign currency w i th in the l im it set from t ime to t ime by the BOL. Nonresidents are authorized to take out foreign currency to the l im it of the amount that was brought in and declared upon arr iva l. Imports of domestic currency require BOL authorization. Persons entering the country may bring un l im i ted amounts of foreign currency and may declare the amount thereof to the imm igra t ion officer at the port of entry in case they want to take out the same amount in foreign exchange. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be credited w i th (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) other transfers from abroad; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened with commercial banks w i th in Lao P.D.R., but only in cases where the payments are for specific goods and services that have been authorized by the BOL to be sold domestically for foreign exchange; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These ac- counts, wh ich are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers . Yes. Residents may open accounts abroad in exceptional cases with the approval of the BOL. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le int o foreign currency Kip accounts of nonresidents, namely embassies and international organizations, the credit balance of wh i ch de r ives from conversion of foreign currency, are considered as conver t i- ble accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited w i th (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonres ident and resident fore ign currency accounts in Lao P.D.R.; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and du ly declared upon arrival. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to accept or deposit into the ir accounts foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the BOL. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents ' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an author- ized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. These accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not per- mitted to deposit kip belonging to residents into the ir convertible kip accounts. These ac- coun ts may be debited for (1) payments in kip and (2) conversion in to fore ign currency at the prevailing buy ing rate of the commercial bank concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 515 Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for import s Preshipment inspection Margin deposits are required against LCs, and the rates are set by the BCEL and other commercial banks. A jo in t -ven tu re company former ly inspected goods before shipment. E f fec t ive J u ne 1, 2000, this company ceased operations. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses issued by the Commerce and Tourism Offices under the V ien t iane mun ic i- pality and provincial governments are required for all goods, except for yarn and textiles imported for garment factories and goods on the inclusion list. Positive list Negative list Yes. These goods are subject to a quota. Licenses w i th quotas Effective November 15, 2000, the import ban on motor vehicles was replaced w i th a quota. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff structure is composed of six rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inputs, and certain essential con- sumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to luxury consumer goods, certain beverages, and tobacco. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses E f fec t ive Octobe r 19, 2000, receipts from exports of wood and wood produc ts are requ ired to be surrendered to state-owned commercial banks after all payments due to the govern- ment have been settled, as follows: 100% for log exports, 80% for exports of sawn timber, and 60% for exports of wooden products. n.a. n.a. Export licenses, wh ich are issued by the trade department under the Vientiane prefecture and prov inc ia l gove rnment authorities, are required for all products. On March 1, 2001, export l icens ing requirements were lifted for all products, except for m in ing, timber, and processed and semi-processed wood products. W i th quotas Export taxes Quotas apply on ly to timber. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from merchandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions require BOL authorization. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on direct investment Direct investments are subject to the Direct Investment Promotion and Management Law. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment These transactions are permitted after BOL scrutiny. Transfers of large sums may be made in ins ta l lmen ts according to a plan approved by the BOL. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Yes. n.a. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized commercial banks may open accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments June 1. The joint-venture company that inspected goods before shipment ceased operations. Exports and export proceeds October 19. Surrender requ iremen ts to state-owned commerc ial banks were in troduced for receipts from exports of logs, sawn timber, and wood products. November 15. The import ban on motor vehicles was replaced with a quota. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 517 Exports and export proceeds March 1. Export licensing requirements were lifted for all products, except for m in ing, timber, and processed and semi-processed wood products. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of July 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Latvia is the Latvian lats. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The lats is pegged to the SDR and, since February 1994, has maintained a constant ex- change rate against the SDR of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of Latvia (BOL) quotes daily the fixing rates of the lats against 46 convertible currencies. These rates are used for accounting purposes and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes real-time buying and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen). The spread between the buying and selling rate is 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. n.a. n.a. Inoperative Inoperative bilateral payment agreements are maintained with Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Administration of control Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of ministers and approved by parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the BOL. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade A license is required. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA Resident Accounts 519 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Nonresident Accounts Non res ident na tu ral persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in La tv ia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are v ir tua l ly no licensing requirements for imports except for reasons of health and safety. Licensing is almost automatic except for pyrotechnic products, arms and amm u n i- tion, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The processing time for license applica- tions is no more than 10 business days, and license fees reflect processing costs on ly. On January 2, 2001, imports of pork from Italy were banned. According to the Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs), there are two specific tariffs on sugar and cigarettes. The average of the basic ad valorem tariffs on nonagricultural goods is 2.20% and the average MFN rate is 1.36%. Some f inal goods are exempt from customs du t ies. The average basic rate on agricultural goods is 13.61%, and the average MFN rate is 9.47%. On Ap r il 1, 2000, parliament abolished fixed tariff rates on alcoholic beverages and abol- ished tar iff rates on cyclic and acyclic hydrocarbons; paper, paperboard, paper pu lp, and articles made of paper; iron and steel and articles made thereof; and electrical mach inery. Effective June 1, 2000, the safeguard tariff on pork products was abolished. On Janua ry 1, 2001, a countervailing duties law consistent with WTO recommendations came into effect. Latvia maintains trade and economic cooperation agreements prov id ing for MFN status w i th the fo l low ing countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukra ine (for agricultural goods), Uzbekistan, and WTO countries, inc lud ing the other Baltic countries, the Czech Republic, the EU, the EFTA, Hungary, Poland, the Slovak Repub l ic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Uk r a ine (for indu s t r i al goods). State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 LATVIA Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. There are no export duties, except on books more than 50 years old and an t iques. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Nonresidents were not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies o rgan iz ing raffles and gambling. Effective January 1, 2000, nonresidents from the EU, associated countries, and countries w i th wh ich Latvia has concluded bilateral agreements were allowed to own more than 49% of shares in these companies. Nonresidents from non- EU countries are not allowed to own a major stake of shares in securities businesses. Effec t ive February 24, 2000, foreign ownership in companies engaged in logging was allowed. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The purchase of bu i ld ings is permitted. The purchase of land is not restricted, except for areas of land near borders and env i ronmen ta l ly protected areas. Land to be used for ag r icu l- tu ral and forestry purposes may be bought on ly if one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries w i th wh i ch La tv ia has an agreement on promo t ion of fore ign inves tmen t; (2) to a group of the prev ious categories; or (3) it is a p u b l ic joint-stock company, shares of wh ich are quoted on the stock exchange. Controls on personal cap i tal movements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 521 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Exposure ( inc lud ing lending) to any Zone B coun try must not exceed 25% of a bank 's capital. Effective December 1, 2000, exposure to Estonia or L i thuan ia must not exceed 50%. Total exposure to Zone B countries must not exceed 200% of a bank's capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of capital for any single foreign currency and 20% of capital for all foreign currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Private pension funds are not allowed to invest abroad more than 15% of the ir pension capital. The law on insurance companies and their supe rv is ion restricts investments abroad by the insurance companies to 10% of the ir technical resources, except when au tho r iza t ion is granted. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Effective May 12, 2000, regulations on the registration of fore ign inve s tment compan ies with the Securities Market Commission entered into force. Effective June 20, 2000, regulations on equity capital of brokerage companies entered into force . Effec t ive Januar y 1, 2001, regulations on activities of in te rna t ional companies in the securities market entered into force. Effective Ju ly 1, 2001, regulations on capital adequacy requirements for investment companies and amendmen ts to the law on securities entered into force. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments April 1. Fixed tariff rates on alcoholic beverages and tariff rates on a range of products were abolished. June 1. The safeguard tariff on pork products was abolished. Capital transaction s Controls on direct investment January 1. Nonresidents from the EU, associated countries, and countries w i th wh ich Latvia has concluded bilateral agreements were allowed to own more than 49% of shares in companies organizing ra f f l ing and gambling activities. February 24. Foreign ownership in companies engaged in logging was allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions December 1. Exposure ( inc lud ing lend ing) to Estonia or L i thuan ia was increased to 50% from 25% of a bank's capital. Other controls imposed by securities laws May 12. Regulations on the registration of foreign investment companies w i th the Securities Market Commission entered into force. June 20. Regulations on equ i ty capital of brokerage companies entered into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 LATVIA Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 1. A countervailing duties law consistent with WTO recommendations came into effect. January 2. Imports of pork from Italy were banned. Capital transactions Other controls imposed by securities laws January L Regulations on activities of international companies in the securities market entered into force. July 1. Regulations on capital adequacy requirements for investment companies and amendments to the law on securities entered into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Exchange rates are market determined, but the authorities may announce buying or se l l ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly con- d i t ions in the exchange market. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency except new Israeli sheqalim. No. No. Forward operations are allowed, provided that a m i n im um marg in deposit of 20% is constituted for each operation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Banks and financial institutions are prohibited from opening debit or credit accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident financial institutions. Yes. No. No. No. No. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins require a certificate issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer that indicates the gold content and weight. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 LEBANON Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Nonresident nonfmanc ial entities may hold onshore accounts in Lebanese pounds freely. Banks and financial institutions are prohibited from opening debit or credit accounts (in- cluding fiduciary accounts) in Lebanese pounds for the nonresident financial sector. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirement s for imports Advance impor t deposits Importers must place with banks a prior deposit of 15% of the va lue of an LC in the same currency as the LC. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Imports prohibited year-round include live chickens, all chicken meat (except for chicken nuggets), fresh l iqu id m i lk, yogurt, spring onions, cauliflowers, cabbages, carrots, parsnips, broad beans, green peppers, spinach, olives, zucch in i, parsley, coriander, watercress, lamb's lettuce, spearmint, potatoes, green almonds, pine nuts, citrus fruits, bananas, figs, grapes, apples, peaches, plums, green plums, sharon fruits, jujubes, strawberries, quinces, apricots, cherries, pears, thyme, olive oil, and pickles. Imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include tomatoes, cucumbers, egg- plant, green beans, peas, watermelons, muskmelons, onions, garlic, and corncobs. Imports of various seeds (citrus, apple, olive, and nu t) and various ju ices (apple, orange, and lemon) and of certain finished goods, wires, cables, cement, veterinary vaccines, and fertilizers require a license. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Additionally, certain commercial entities listed un- der the Arab Boycott List are banned from trading with Lebanon. Lebanon uses the Harmonized System Tariff version 96. Customs valuation is on the basis of c.i.f. value; customs duties are generally ad valorem. The rates vary between zero and 90%. There are preferential duty rates for goods imported for indus t r ia l, agr icu l tura l, or pub l ic use. In add i t ion to ad valorem duties, the fo l low ing other methods are used: (1) the bracket-based calculation in the case of cars, when the value of a car is divided into two brackets and the total duty is the sum of the duties applied at each rate; (2) duties calculated on the basis of un i ts of measure, such as weight or vo lume (e.g., gasoline); (3) combined du ty i s calculated on an ad valorem and specific basis, so that the h igher amount is col- lected (e.g., tropical f ru i ts and chickens). In addition, excise duties are collected on alco- holic and nonalcoholic drinks, cars, cement, and fuels. Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Convention. State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 525 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of arms and ammun i t ion, narcotics, and s im i lar products are prohibited. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres ident banks, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, and money-dealers need approval from the Ban- que du Liban (BL) when purchasing treasury securities denom ina ted in Lebanese pounds or CDs from the BL. Funds used to purchase treasury securities or CDs must or ig ina l ly have been pounds that were converted from foreign exchange specifically for this purpose. The same regulations apply for nonresident private persons purchasing treasury securities. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase debt securities from abroad freely. Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, however, are only allowed to purchase bonds issued by Group of Ten countries. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The promotion of and trad ing in foreign co l lec t ive inves tment securities are subject to p r ior BL approval. The issuance and trad ing of derivative products requ ire pr ior BL approval. There is no control on purchasing der iva t ives or any f inanc ial instruments from abroad. Banks, however, un l ike f inanc ial institutions and brokerage firms, need the prior approval of the central bank to engage in derivative transactions for the ir own account. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 LEBANON Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial cred i ts Banks are proh ib i ted from ex tend ing credits in Lebanese pounds to the non res ident f inanc ial sector. By residents to nonresidents The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents No. No. Non-Arab foreigners require a license from the Council of Ministers to acquire real estate. Arab nationals do not need a license; nevertheless, a ce i l ing is imposed on the total area that can be acquired. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Banks need prior BL approval for launching or trading in financial products. Guarantees on such products should not exceed 7% of the bank 's equ i ty and shou ld be reported to the Bank ing Control Comm iss ion. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Banks are prohibited from extending credits in Lebanese pounds for the nonresident f inanc ial sector. This control does not apply to guarantees issued by nonresident banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions as collateral to loans in Lebanese pounds, provided that such loans are for commercial or inves tment activities in Lebanon. In addition, the net debtor interbank position between a Lebanese bank and its affiliate or sister company abroad should not exceed 25% of core capital. Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are exempted from reserve requ iremen ts. L iqu id assets in foreign exchange should not be less than 25% ( u n t il October 18, 2000, 30%) of the total of the c l ien t's deposits of all maturities, CDs, bonds, and subordinated loans w i th a ma tur i ty of one year or less (un t il October 18, 2000, less than one year). Banks need the prior approval of the central bank to acquire shares in foreign f inanc ial institutions. Foreigners' participation in Lebanese banks is limited to up to two-thirds of capital. Foreign banks may establish f u l ly owned branches subject to central bank approval. Regardless of resident/nonresident assets or liabilities, banks may ma in ta in a trading position (total open position less total structural position) in foreign currency of up to 5% of the core capital of banks, and a global position (total trading position, short or long) of up to 40% of core capital. Structural positions are long-term positions representing foreign assets in foreign currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 527 Capital transactions Changes During 2000 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 18. The l iqu id asset requirement in foreign exchange was decreased to 25% from 30% and the maturity changed to one year or less from less than one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: March 5, 1997. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Lesotho loti. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Conven t ional pegged arrangement The lo ti is pegged to the South A f r ican rand at M 1 per R 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No. No. Au thor ized dealers are perm i t ted to conduct forward exchange operations through th e ir correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, how- ever, is not common in Lesotho. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements by or w i th residents of CMA member coun tr ies w i th all countries ou ts ide the CMA may be made to and from a nonresident account in rand or in any other foreign currency. n.a. n.a. Lesotho is part of the CMA, w i t h in wh ich payments are unrestricted, except as regards statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely s im i l ar to those applied by South Afr ica and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and delegates to commercial banks the au tho r i ty to approve certain types of cu r rent paymen ts up to estab- l ished l im i ts. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise based on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Indus t ry. Licenses for f inanc ial in s t i tu- tions accepting deposits, insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. No. No. Only authorized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may hold gold. Controls on external trade Exports of gold from the CMA are prohibited. 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 529 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency from Lesotho are p roh ib i ted. Exports of foreign currency from the CMA by residents are prohibited; visitors may reexport the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the coun try. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. On ly banks may ho ld these accounts, and approval is requ i red. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Funds in an em igran t's blocked loti account may be invested in quoted securities and other such inves tmen ts approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an em igran t's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a fam i ly un it a year. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Payments are not norma l ly allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except w i th pr ior approval or special authorization from the CBL. Authorized dealers may pe rm i t, w i thout the CBL's approval, advance payments of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal practice in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 LESOTHO Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Lesotho is a member of the SACU; all imports, except certain food items originating in any coun try of the SACU are unrestricted. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usu- a l ly licensed in conform i ty w i th SACU import regulations. Lesotho reserves the r ight to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. W i th certain exceptions, imports from outside the SACU must conform to a negative list and be licensed (e.g., ammun i t ion, flora and fauna, and i l legal drugs). Licenses w i th quotas Certain food impor ts from countries w i t h in the SACU are subject to import l icens ing. Import taxes and /or tar i f fs Lesotho applies the external customs ta r i f fs of the SACU. State import monopoly No. Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts F i n a n c i ng requ iremen ts Documen ta t ion requ irements Letters of c red it Guaran tees D om i c i l i a t i on P re sh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Unless o therw ise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in six mon ths of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export c red it scheme is in effect, i n v o l v i ng credit guarantees and pre- and pos tsh ipment credits. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is l im i ted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped w i thout license to or th rough South A f r ica. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Profit and d iv idend transfers are not restricted, provided the funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test There is no indicative l im it or bona fide test for the payment of commissions. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. There is a l im it of M 100,000 a year for adu l ts and M 30,000 for ch i ld ren under 12 years of age. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. Personal paymen ts Prior approval Prior approval is requ i red for payment of study costs abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 531 Indicative limits/bona fide test For study abroad, the l im i ts are M 80,000 a year for a single student or M 160,000 a year for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not studying. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Export credits are ava i lab le for up to six months; in certain circumstances, the ma tu r i ty can be extended by six months. Longer-term credits requ ire exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits requ i re exchange control approval. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct inves tment These credits requ i re pr ior approval. However, who l ly nonresident-owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not dis- rupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of p reva i l ing in terna t ional rates. The r u l i n gs on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whe ther the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 LESOTHO Outward direct investment Outward direct investment is prohibited. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Approval is required. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Approval is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of L ibe r ia is the Liberian dollar. There were two L iber ian do l lar notes, L ib- erty notes and J .J. Roberts notes. Effec t ive March 29, 2000, a new mu l t id enom in a t ion al Liberian dollar was introduced to replace the J .J. Roberts and the Liberty dollar notes. Other legal tender The U.S. do l lar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating The Liberian dollar is market determined, and all foreign exchange dealers i n c l u d i ng banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies, inc lud ing the U.S. dollar, at marke t-de term ined exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Import duties and customs fees are payable in U.S. dollars, and exporters must pay export taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are requ ired to receive payments from foreign guests in fo re ign exchange. n.a. n.a. No. Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus try (MCI). International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the M in is try of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 LIBERIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Preshipment inspection is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan- tity, and the va lue of all goods to be shipped. Both final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports w i th an f.o.b. value of less than US$3,000. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items, inc lud ing safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the MCI. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs The nom inal average tar iff rate is 11.7%. State impo rt monopo ly No. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. n.r. Licenses generally are issued freely, inc lud ing those for agr icu l tural products, to ensure certification of quality and origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 535 Export taxes An export tax of 5% is imposed on the f.o.b. va lue of rubber and other agr icu l tural produce, payable in U.S. dollars. Other export taxes An export tax of 15% is levied on d iamonds. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers; however, in fo rma t ion on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investment is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transact ions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal cap i tal movements Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Provisions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. n .r. No. No. Exchange arrangement March 29. A new L iber ian do l lar was introduced to replace the J .J. Roberts and the Liberty do l lars. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of June 30, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Libya is the Libyan dinar. The Central Bank of L ibya (CBL) legalized the parallel exchange market and allowed commercial banks to sell foreign exchange for transactions related to personal imports, travel, medical treatment abroad, and ha jj and omra at the parallel exchange rate, now referred to as the special exchange rate. There is also an o f f ic ial exchange rate. Libya has two exchange rates: the official exchange rate and the special rate. Most transac- tions, in c lud ing oil exports and most p u b l ic sector imports, take place at the o f f ic ial ex- change rate. The o f f ic ial exchange rate has been pegged since March 1986 to the SDR w i th in a horizontal band around the central va lue of LD 1 per SDR 2.80. The special rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar. The authorities have gradually devalued the official rate relative to the SDR by progressively w iden ing the band around the central va lue and pegging the off ic ial exchange rate to the lower end of the band. On June 26, 2001, th is rate stood at LD 1 per SDR 1.224. Concomitantly, the authorities have appreciated the special exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar and have extended its coverage to inc lude a larger number of transactions. On December 20, 2000, the special exchange rate was appreciated to LD 1.65 per $1 from LD 1.75 per $1. Effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands. Fees are levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made R iver Project. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Israel are prohibited. Settlements w i th other countries are made in conver t ib le currenc ies. n.a. n.a. An agreement is ma in ta ined w i th Malta; ou ts tand ing balances are settled in conve r t ib le currencies every 90 days. The CBL administers exchange control and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, wh ich is executed by the Secretariat of P lann ing, the Economy, and Trade (SOPET). In terna t ional security restrictions No. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 537 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The CBL imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also se l ls gold bars to domestic go ldsm i ths for manu fac tu re at prices announced from t ime to t ime. The gold must be processed before it may be sold to the pub l ic. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15%. Residents and non res iden ts are not a l lowed to export L ibyan currency. Res iden ts and nonresidents may export and import at the special exchange rate for per- sonal, noncommercial purposes any amount of foreign exchange through authorized banks. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by v is i t ing tourists may be reconverted upon departure. Residents and nonres iden ts are allowed to export fore ign cu r rency bought from commerc ial banks at the special exchange rate. On imports Domestic currency Residents and non res iden ts are not allowed to import L ibyan currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Ind iv idu al residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad w i thout restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain fore ign ex- change earnings in a special account that may be used to f inance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts who are employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts, wh i ch may be credited w i th the ir legitimate earnings. All other credits to nonres ident accounts require the prior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept w i th an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of th e ir con- tracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are sub j e ct to the prior approval of the CBL after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in gen- eral, remittances are perm i t ted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Funds brought in by non res iden ts may be reexported if not used, after subm iss ion of ev idence. Conver t ib le into fore ign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is requ ired. Approval requ ired Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Blocked accounts Nonresident-owned capita l that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. W i th the approval of the CBL, funds in blocked accounts (w i th certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his or her country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qua l i fy, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in f u ll to the owner in his or her country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (w i th certain exceptions) who have left the country pe rmanen t ly are being released in ins ta l lmen ts. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance impor t deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopo ly Au thor ized bank s may not open an LC w i thout an advance import deposit equal to at least 20% of the va lue of the import and the banks must use the special exchange rate. E f f e c t ive February 20, 2000, a 25% advance deposit is required for pub l ic enterprises and a 50% advance deposit for partnership and shares companies. Authorized bank s may open LCs w i thout approval from the CBL, provided the special rate is used. Before an LC is established, a ma r ine insurance policy from a local insu rance company must be submitted. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks fo l low- ing central bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the SOPET. All imports require licenses, except for imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises for projects financed by the government. Resident firms unde r tak ing deve lopment projects may import needed items not inc luded in the annual commodity budget if the items are not available locally , subject to CBL approval. Imports by nonresidents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. W i th the exception of strategic goods (i.e., n ine essential food items, medicines, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) retained by pub l ic corporations, all other goods may be imported by either pub l ic or private entities w i th in the provisions of the annual commodity budget. Imports of m ineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and fu rs are proh ib i ted. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to deal directly w i th producers abroad and not through in termed iar ies. Imports are subject to customs duties and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the applica- ble customs duties. All products from Arab coun tr ies are exempt from customs du t ies, provided domestic va lue added is at least 40%. A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopo ly over the impor ta t ion of gold and precious metals. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ irements All proceeds had to be repatriated w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. E f fec t ive October 29, 2000, all proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months of shipment. Surrender requirements Exporters are allowed to retain up to 100% of nonhydrocarbon earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 539 F inanc ing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports requ ire the opening of LCs. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the Export Promo- t ion Counc il and supply on a regular basis the re levant documentation on the ir exports. Exports of nonmone ta ry gold (other than for processing abroad), scrap metals, eggs, ch icken, fish, o l ive o i l, paint, tires, steel, and tractors are proh ib i ted. Exports or reexports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are prohibited. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Payments for inv i s ib les related to au thor ized imports are not restricted. All other paymen ts for inv i s ib le s, as we ll as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, required the pr ior approval of the CBL un t il March 14, 2000. From that date, resi- dents (except pub l ic enterprises included in the foreign exchange budget) and nonresidents are allowed to buy and sell foreign currency through accounts at commercial banks for all noncommercial transfers and credit operations, provided that the special rate is used and the d inar is used as the in termed iary. Further, tourism organizations are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange required for or acquired through their activities, at the special exchange rate. Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the pa id -up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are he ld by foreign nationals. In fo rma t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Residents are a l lowed to purchase fore ign exchange for tour ism from au thor ized banks w i thout l im i t s. Yes. Nonresidents employed by the state, by state-owned enterprises, and by foreign companies may rem it (1) up to 50% of the ir net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both w i ll be made available free of charge by the employer; or (2) up to 75% of the ir net salaries if the ir contracts specify that the emp loyer w i ll prov ide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Purchase abroad of these instruments by residents requires approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Effective October 29, 2000, pub l ic enterprises not included in the foreign exchange budget are allowed to sell any amount of foreign exchange they earn at the special rate to open or settle credit through the bank ing system, provided they report the sources and uses of the foreign exchange. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in indus tr ial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a m inor i ty basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surp lus production. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the pa id -up capital is not less than the equ iva lent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign A f fa i rs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 541 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement December 20. The special exchange rate was appreciated to LD 1.65 per $1 from LD 1.75 p e r $ l. Imports and import payments February 20. A 25% advance deposit was required for pub l ic enterprises and a 50% advance deposit for partnership and shares companies. Exports and export proceeds October 29. All proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months of sh ipmen t. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 14. Residents (except public enterprises included in the foreign exchange budget) and nonresidents were allowed to buy and sell foreign currency through accounts at com- mercial banks for all noncommercial transfers and credit operations, prov ided that the spe- cial rate was used and the dinar was used as the intermediary. Further, tou r i sm organiza- tions were allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange required for or acquired th rough the ir activities, at the special exchange rate. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations October 29. Pub l ic enterprises not inc luded in the foreign exchange budget were a l lowed to sell any amount of foreign exchange they earn at the special rate to open or settle credit through the bank ing system, prov ided they report the sources and uses of the fore ign exchange. Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category conven t ional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate w i t h in ho r izon tal bands. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of L i thuan ia is the L i thuan ian litas. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in istrat ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports The litas is pegged to the dollar at LTL 4 per $1 since Apr il 1994 when the currency board arrangement was established. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Rub le-denom ina ted correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a banking law delegating to the BOL the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania; the BOL may l im it the types of transactions that may be conducted on a case-by-case basis. No. No. No. Na tural or ju r id i c al persons, exc lud ing the BOL or commercial banks, are not allowed to export more than LTL 500,000 in cash in domestic or foreign currency, except in cases where it is allowed by law or an international agreement. 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 543 Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Jur id ical persons need the permission of the BOL to hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Nonresident Accounts Approval is required if the legislation of the other country requires approval. Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons and as noted below. Certain food products, such as semiprocessed meat products, poultry, and fish, are subject to licensing. Certain agr icu l tural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quanti- ta t ive restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect L i thuan ia 's cu l tu ral heritage. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco may be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. A three-tier tar iff structure exists consisting of (1) a "conventional" rate applied to coun- tries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which L i thuan ia has a foreign trade agreement; and (3) an "autonomous" rate that is usually 5% higher than the MFN rate and is applied to all other countries. Imports entering under a majority of tariff lines are duty free; and most other tariff lines carry duty rates of 20% or less; how- ever, rates on agr icu l tural products range as high as 87%. Some non-ad valorem duty rates remain in effect. Effec t ive Ap r il 1, 2000, import reference prices were eliminated for all products except sugar. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 LITHUANIA Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are license requ iremen ts governing trade in strategic goods and technology. Yes. Yes. Taxes were applied to exports of raw hides, certain types of logs, glands and other organs for therapeutic purposes or for use in the preparation of pharmaceutical products, and feathers. Effective January 10, 2000, export taxes on new hides and skins were reduced to 15% from 30%; effective January 1, 2001, all export taxes were abolished. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. There are no controls, except in fields that are subject to proh ib i t ion under the Law on For- eign Capital Investments: state defense, production and sale of narcotic substances, and lottery transactions. The law permits the state to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the company must remain engaged in the same type of business for at least one year under the new ownership. Wh i le f irms with 100% foreign capital ownersh ip are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the government reserves the right to establish l im i ts on foreign investment in L i thuan ian enterprises. In jo int ventures in the transportation and commun ica t ion sectors, the domestic partner is required to ho ld the ma jor i ty of shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industries are prohibited. En- terprises with foreign investment must be insured by L i thuan ian insurance companies, even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits LITHUANIA 545 The ownership of land by nonresidents in L i thuan ia is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits up to two hectares of land in V i ln ius and ten hectares outside the capital are permitted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. Yes. n.a. Resident banks or other credit institutions must inform the BOL about the ir accounts w i th foreign banks. Locally issued securities must be denominated in the national currency. There are reserve requ iremen ts on nonresidents' deposits and on commercial banks' borrowing from foreign f inanc ial institutions. Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 30% of their capital, and the open position in ind iv idual currencies may not exceed 20% of the banks' capital. Effective June 1, 2000, these l im i ts were changed to 25% and 15%, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments April 1. Import reference prices were eliminated for all products except sugar. Exports and export proceeds January 10. Export taxes on new h ides and sk ins were reduced to 15% from 30%. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 1. Banks' overall open position limits were reduced to 25% of their capital and to 15% for ind iv idual currencies. Exports and export proceeds January 1. All export taxes were abolished. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Luxembourg is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Luxembourg franc and the Belgian franc un t il 2002, when euro banknotes and coins w i ll be issued. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Luxembourg franc and the euro w i ll circulate. Other legal tender The Belgian franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Luxembourg participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in re- spect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the ex- ternal exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Luxembou rg franc is set at Lux F 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to in tervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Certain restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq, Libya, and the UNITA movement in Angola. The res- trictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia were partially lifted on November 10, 2000, maintaining a freeze on funds in relation to certain persons associated with the former government of the Republic of Yugoslavia. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG Resident Accounts 547 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts affected by international security restrictions are blocked. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for imports may be made freely. Ind iv idual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from another EU member country), inc lud ing many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. A long w i th other EU countries, Luxembourg applies quotas on a number of tex t i le products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA. It also applies a system of quotas on some steel products originating in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine. A doub le-check ing system (w i thout quotas) is applied to imports of some steel products from the Czech Re- pub l ic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Repub l ic (effective January 1, 2000, Bulgaria was removed from this list). Quotas are ap- plied on a number of products from China, such as ceramics, porcelain, and shoes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 LUXEMBOURG Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, such as arms and dual-use goods, and diamonds. Export licenses are also required for exports to countries under UN embargo. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. These are applicable only to insurance undertakings. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments November 10. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal R epub l ic of Yugoslavia were partially l if ted, ma in ta in ing a freeze on funds in relation to certain per- sons associated with its former government. January 1. Bu lgar ia was removed from the list of countries for wh ich a doub le -check ing system is applied to imports of some steel products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: J u ne 19, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the former Yugoslav Repub l ic of Macedonia is the Macedonian denar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange market operates at two levels: wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia (NBRM)) and retail (households). The NBRM participates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the deutsche mark at a level that meets balance of payments objectives. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the NBRM, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the NBRM publishes rates for 22 currencies and deals at the pub l ished m idpo int rates p lus or m inus a margin of 0.3%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, wh ich are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, and natural persons. Foreign exchange bu- reaus may hold foreign exchange positions equ iva lent to 100% of the net foreign exchange purchases in the preceding 10 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. Official cover of forward operations The NBRM may conclude forward foreign exchange contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. n.a. n.a. No. The parliament has the authority to legislate laws governing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made th rough government reg- u la t ions. The NBRM is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. The MOF is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate in terna t iona l ly. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been delegated to participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Ministry of Foreign Relations administers the Commercial Companies Act. International security restrictions No. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Go ld producers must report all produc t ion, i n c l u d i ng qua l i ty and quan t i ty sold. Processors are also required to report all quan t i t ies bought and processed. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold requ ire NBRM approval. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency A max imum of MDen 5,000 in denominations of 100-, 50-, 20-, and 10-denar banknotes may be exported. Effective December 14, 2000, private domestic travelers may export up to the equ iv a l ent of DM 5,000 (prev ious ly DM 1,000). Business travelers may export up to the amount stated on the bank order form. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country. The same l im i ts apply as for exports. Foreign travelers must declare foreign currency over the equ iva lent of DM 300. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange deposits made after Ap r il 26, 1991, are freely disposable, i.e., they may be withdrawn in foreign currency or converted into denars. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Enterprises w i th foreign operations may hold these accounts, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely w i th foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion in to denars. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 551 Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A contract, invoice, or customs declaration should be submitted to the commercial bank effecting the payment. Generally, payments for imports are permitted after the importation of goods. Only imports of equ ipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, goods financed by foreign loans, and raw materials may be paid in advance. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing require- ments for security or pub l ic health reasons. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Customs duties on most indus tr ial items range up to 35%. Duty rates on raw materials range from zero to 2% (prior to January 1, 2001, from zero to 8%); on machinery and equipment from 1% to 8% (prior to January 1, 2001, from 5% to 20%); consumer goods from 15% to 35%; and agricultural goods from 20% to 60%. The number of bands was reduced to 16 and the average rate to about 14.46%. There is also a 1% documentation fee. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds from transactions that are not based on commodity credits have to be transferred by the exporters in to the country w i th in 90 days from the day the exportation took place. Exporters must in fo rm the ir banks of the or ig in of the ir proceeds and how to dispose of them w i th in four business days of transferr ing the proceeds into the country. W i t h in 90 days of the transfer, exporters may retain the foreign exchange and use it for payments abroad or sell it on the foreign exchange market. Effective Ju ly 13, 2000, the number of days w i th in which foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered was extended to 180 days. After this period, selling the foreign exchange on the market is obligatory. F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Gene ra l ly, exports are l ibera l. However, in some exceptional cases, the export of certain goods requires a license from the appropr ia te authorities. Yes. Effective September 30, 2000, a 0.1% fee was levied for export promotion by the M in is try of Economy (MOE). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Personal paymen ts Prior approval The transfer of pens ions is perm i t ted on ly on the basis of ra t if ied in te rna t ional agreements. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib les are subject to the same regu la t ions as those app l icab le to merchandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and jur id ical persons is not permitted. Accord ing to the Commercial Companies Act, nonres iden ts may acqu ire shares in domestic companies on the same terms as residents, provided that they obtain approval from the MOE (prior to September 30, 2000, approval was required from the MOF) if the ma jo r i ty of shares are in question; otherwise, they should only register the inves tmen t. According to the Securities Act, nonresidents may issue securities in the former Yugos lav Repub l ic of Macedonia on the basis of reciprocity and w i th the approval of the Commis- sion on Securities. According to the Foreign Trade Act, only foreign direct investments are permitted by the MOE (prior to September 30, 2000, the MOF). The transfer of foreign exchange requires the approval of the NBRM. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same conditions apply as for shares or other securities of a participatory nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same conditions apply as for shares or other securities of a participatory nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same conditions apply as for shares or other securities of a participatory nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same cond i t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a participatory na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. n.r. Short-term commercial banks' credit lines w i th a ma tur i ty exceeding 90 days shou ld be registered. By residents to nonresidents Credits for the export of goods and services exceeding 90 days should be registered. To residents from nonresidents Credits for the import of goods for consumption are not permitted. Other credits exceeding 180 days should be registered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits were permitted only if the export of goods and services was be ing pro- moted. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, f inanc ial credits are free and subject only to a requ ire- ment that documentary evidence be submitted to the NBRM. Private f inanc ial credits were permitted only for export-oriented projects. E f fec t ive Janu- ary 1, 2000, f inanc ial credits are free and subject only to a requ irement that documen tary evidence be submitted to the NBRM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 553 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Only commercial banks may effect these transactions, wh ich should be registered w i th the NBRM. Inves tmen ts requ ire approval from, and registration w i th, the MOE (p r ior to September 30, 2000, the MOF). Non res iden ts are allowed to invest in ex is t ing firms, establish the ir own firms, or establish jo int ventures, except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equ ipment not produced domes t ica l ly by jo in t -ven tu re firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the inves tment is at least 20%. All fore ign in- vestment registered with the Ministry of Trade is protected from na t iona l iza t ion. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans Accord ing to the Foreign Credit Re la t ion Act, na tu ral persons are not pe rm i t ted to engage in credit relations. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Inheritances may be transferred on the basis of an agreement of reciprocity w i th the respective coun try . By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The transfer of proceeds from gamb l ing is not perm i t ted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange This lend ing is not perm i t ted. D i f fe ren t ial treatmen t of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Nonresident deposits in denars are subject to requirements, but foreign exchange deposits are not. The effec t ive reserve requ i remen ts on foreign currency deposits by i n d i v i d u a ls are 70% on sight deposits, 60% on one-month deposits, 50% on three-month deposits, 40% on six-month deposits, 30% on one-year deposits, and 20% on longer-term deposits. Liquid asset requirements Yes. Credit controls Credit controls apply only to domestic currency credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds Cap ital transactions Changes During 2000 December 14. The amount in foreign currency that private domestic travelers may export was increased to the equ iva lent of DM 5,000 from DM 1,000. July 13. The number of days within which foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered was extended to 180 days. September 30. A 0.1% fee was levied for export promotion by the MOF. Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts September 30. The approval for residents to purchase shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature abroad is to be issued by the MOE, instead of the MOF. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment September 30. The MOE, instead of the MOF, issues approvals for nonresidents to acquire shares in domestic companies. January 1. Financial credits were liberalized and made subject only to a requ irement that documentary evidence be submitted to the NBRM. September 30. The approval for residents' outward direct investments is to be issued by the MOE, instead of the MOF. Imports and import payments January 1. The max imum duty rate on raw materials was decreased to 2% from 8% and the range of duty rates on machinery and equ ipment was changed to l%-8% from 5%-20%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 18, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is de term ined freely in the o f f ic ial interbank market. The euro is the only currency quoted on th is market, and the exchange rates of other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. No. No. There are l im i ted arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Importers may buy fore ign currency 120 days p r ior to settlement from the ir bank. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. n.a. n.a. Inoperative There is an arrangement with Maur i t ius that has been inoperative for some time. Barter agreements and open accounts Regu la t ions p roh ib it barter trade. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Exchange Operations Mon i tor ing U n it of the Gen- eral Directorate of the Treasury, wh ich also supervises borrow ing and lend ing abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Madagascar. Approval au tho r i ty for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, except for capital operations, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through such intermediaries. Yes. Yes. Approved collectors ac t ing in th e ir own name and on the ir own account may pu rchase gold w i t h in the country from holders of va l id gold m in ing titles, from authorized holders of Gold Board gold wash ing rights, and from agencies for approved collectors. 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 MADAGASCAR Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of nu- mismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold mining title or a gold washing per- mit or rights thereto are free to sell any gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. The Gold Board and agencies authorized by the Ministry of Mining may export gold in all its forms. Jewelers, goldsmiths, and private sector pro- fessionals who use gold may export it only in worked form, subject to the decision of the Minister of M in ing. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is more than the equivalent of F 50,000. Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to FMG 25,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but a dec- laration is required if the amount is equal to F 50,000 or more. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents may freely open foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, as we ll as foreign bank- notes or traveler's and bank checks may be deposited in these accounts without documenta- tion. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the l im i ts stipulated un- der the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. MOF authorization is required for opening foreign exchange accounts abroad in foreign banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. Transactions between residents and enterprises in the free trade zone are conducted either through the enterprises' special accounts in Malagasy francs or through the ir foreign ex- change accounts. Convertible into foreign currency No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 557 Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements The requ irement applies to all imports. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs There is a short list of imports subject to administrative control p r im a r i ly for hea l th and security reasons. The tariff structure includes four non-zero rates (5%, 15%, 25%, and 30%). A reallocation of products among the four rates was also made, w i th the aim of ensu r ing a more coherent tariff structure. Some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%. A pretax of 3% to 5%, deduc t ib le from the corporate tax, is paid on all imports. State import monopoly Petroleum products are imported by a state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds should be repatriated w i th in 90 days of the shipment date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes All exports requ i re either a COD or settlement against delivery of documents, ex c lud ing free deliveries. The requ irement applies for exports exceeding FMG 1 m i l l i o n. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in 30 days of the due date. No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 MADAGASCAR Capital Transactions Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries, and between residents and nonres iden ts are subject to pr ior authorization from the MOF. There are no capital market regulations, due to the absence of a capital market. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s trumen ts On capital ma rket securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares s im i lar to securities whose issu ing or o f fe r ing for sale in Madagascar has prev ious ly been au tho r ized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n .r. By residents to nonresidents These operations currently do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export p re f inanc ing operations are permitted. F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inve s tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Borrow ing abroad by na tural or ju r id ical persons, whether pub l ic or private, requ ires p r ior au thor iza t ion from the MOF, a l though loans contracted by authorized banks or credit ins t i- tu t ions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Inves tmen ts abroad by Malagasy nationals, in c lud ing those made through fore ign compa- nies directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to pr ior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. Investments, in c lud ing those made by companies in Madagascar that are d irec t ly or ind i- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Madagascar, as we ll as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted w i t h in Madagascar w i thout au thor iza t ion or inves tment approval. The total or partial l iqu ida t ion of these investments, whe ther Malagasy inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign investment may be repatriated w i th the pr ior authorization of the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents Prohibited, unless otherwise approved by the MOF. Sale locally by nonres iden ts The transfer of proceeds of sales is subject to pr ior authorization by the MOF. Controls on personal cap ital movements n.a. Prov is ions spec if ic to comm e r c ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Con t ro ls a re imp l em en t ed th rough bank supe rv i s ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 559 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly floating Since Ap r il 27, 2000, o f f ic ial intervention has been l im i ted to mee t ing the target on net foreign assets and performing seasonal smoothing operations. Thus, the exchange rate of Malawi has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange market par- ticipants are free to quote the ir own central rates, w i th the condition that the marg in be- tween the buying and selling rates should not exceed 2%. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions w i th the general pub l ic on the basis of exchange rates negotiated w i th the ir clients. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Malawi or in kwacha through nonresident accounts. Current transactions between a resident and a nonresident may only be settled in fore ign exchange, apart from those transactions effected through nonresident accounts, wh ich may be settled in kwacha. Yes. Payments to and receipts from nonresidents in respect of capital transactions may be made through the banking system, but the foreign exchange currency must be converted in to kwacha. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents It is prohibited to quote, demand, or accept foreign currency for goods or services sold or procured in Malawi. Payment arrangements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) under the authority of the MOF. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 561 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins for num isma t ic purposes. On ly the monetary authorities may hold or acqu ire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. On ly the monetary authorities may conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in consultation w i th the MOF; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Malawian and Mozambican monetary authorities are wo rk ing toward the fo rma l iza t ion of a repatriation agreement. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Up to MK 3,000 may be exported. These exports are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts of the equ iva len ts of $3,000, $4,000, and $5,000, applicable to tourist, medical, and business travel, respectively. Up to MK 3,000 may be imported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad may maintain foreign currency accounts (FCDAs). Balances in FCDAs may be used to make foreign payments and trans- fers, provided exchange control regulations are satisfied. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to hold offshore accounts denominated in kwacha. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but authorized dealer banks (ADBs) are requ i red to report them to the RBM. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from sales of any conver t ib le currency, w i th authorized payments in kwacha from abroad, and w i th transfers from other nonres i- dent accounts. These accounts may also be debited to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonres ident accounts, and make paymen ts to account holders tempo ra r i ly res id ing in Ma law i. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but pr ior approval is requ i red. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts require prior authorization, and authorization is no rma l ly given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. Interest earned on balances may be transferred to the account ho lde r 's coun try of residence. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 MALAWI F in an c ing requ irement s for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Advance import deposits Documentation requ irements for release of fore ign exchange for imports P re sh ipment inspec t ion Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in kwacha to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. When import s arrive in the country and payment is due the importer must subm it to an ADB application for foreign exchange. Such applications must be accompanied by relevan t importation, customs, and presh ipment inspection documents. Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Importers are encouraged to use other modes of payment (e.g., LCs). Advance import deposits are not required by law; however, commercial banks do require them as a bank ing practice and depending on the mode of payment (e.g., LCs). A c lean-repor t-of-fmd ings certificate is requ ired. All imports into Ma lawi in the amount of $2,000 (f.o.b.) or its equ iva lent and above are subject to presh ipment inspec t ion. Imports of clothing and un iforms designed for military or police use, radioactive substan- ces, mist nets for the capture of w i ld birds, w i ld animals, l ive fish, compound products su i tab le only for use as an imal fodder, eggs of domestic or w i ld birds, l ive poultry ( inc lud- ing day-old chicks), meat d ie ldr in, a idr in, and table salt requ ire specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are u sua l ly issued w i th in one week of app l ica t ion and are norma l ly vali d for six months. Most imports are subject to the OGL, in c lud ing imports from Commonwealth countries and from countries that are members of the WTO. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and /or tar i f fs Customs ta r i f fs are ad valorem and range up to 35% of c.i.f. value, w i th a weighted av- erage of about 15%. Customs tariffs on all items with MFN status range from zero to 30%. Tariffs on items from the COMESA region range from zero to 13%. Selected government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax ranging up to 20%. State import monopoly No. Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts ADBs are required to convert 60% of foreign exchange received from exports immed ia te ly upon receipt at the p reva i l ing buy ing exchange rate, and to credit kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The remaining 40% may be credited to the exporter's foreign currency account. There are no restrictions on the t ime period du r ing wh ich such balances may be he ld. This 60% conversion also applies to dollar proceeds from tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the conversion is 100% u n t il the seller has f u l ly repaid the overdraft w i th bankers. F in an c ing requirements Yes. Documentat ion requirement s Exporters are required to complete a form. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 563 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Commercial banks are authorized to p rov ide foreign exchange, w i thout reference to the exchange control authorities, for a ll current inv i s ib le payments. Certain i n v i s i b le payments, however, such as private and business travel and medical treatment, are subject to indicative limits. These payments are allowed, provided the investment and the foreign loan are approved and registered by the RBM. The limits are $3,000 a tr ip for tourist travel and $5,000 a trip for business travel. Foreign exchange in excess of these l im i ts is granted upon proof of need. Subsequent issues of for- eign exchange to the same i n d i v i d u al w i th respect to private or business travel is granted upon proof of need. ADBs may approve up to $1,000 for fam i ly maintenance and a l imony payments. L im i ts are also app l ied for payments of medical costs, f am i ly maintenance, and a l imony. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval The l im it is two-thirds of current net earnings. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Sixty percent of total proceeds may be converted into local currency upon receipt, and the balance may be held in FCDAs. Restrictions on use of funds Funds may on ly be used in accordance w i th exchange control regulations. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Inward transfers of non-debt creating capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are con tro l led m a in ly for residents. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is requ ired. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is requ ired. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 MALAWI Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, wh ich is no rma l ly granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Repatriation of investments is permitted when the original investment has been made w i th funds brough t into the country. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments , inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, wh ich is no rma l ly granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatmen t of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 565 Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement April 27. Because the au thor i t ies ceased in te rven ing in the foreign exchange market, except when mee t ing the target on net foreign assets and perform ing seasonal smoo th ing opera- tions, the exchange rate of Malawi was reclassified to the category independen t ly f loa t ing from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian ringgit. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the ringgit is pegged against the dollar at RM 3.80 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s t r a t ion of control International security restrictions n.a. n.a. Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transac- tions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports is provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, wh i le for export purposes, the forward cover would be up to six months from the export date. Forward exchange contracts against the ringgit with nonresidents require the pr ior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange (COFE). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. n.a. n.a. There are 16 arrangements. There are 12 arrangements. Malaysia is a member of the ASEAN. Yes. The COFE, who is also the Governor of the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), administers exchange control. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Malaysia imposes certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Yes. No. No. 566 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 567 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The l im it on exports of r ingg it by resident and nonres ident travelers is RM 1,000 a person. The export of domestic currency by other means, irrespective of the amount, requires p r ior approval. The export of foreign currency by non trave lers requires prior approval. A l im it is in effect of RM 10,000 or its equ iva lent for exports of fore ign currency by resident travelers and of up to the amount brought into Malaysia by nonresident travelers. The import of currency notes by a traveler is limited to RM 1,000. The importation of ring- git banknotes by in s t i tu t ions other than commercial banks, or by any other means, requires p r ior approval from the COFE. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of the ir export proceeds in foreign currency ac- counts with designated banks in Malaysia with an overnight l im it of between $1 m i l l ion and $10 m i l l i on or any other approved amoun t. L im i ts imposed on exporters are based on t h e ir average export receipts over the last 12 months. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or mu l t i cu r r en cy accounts w i th designated banks in Malaysia to retain foreign currency rece ivab les that are not export receipts, subject to an aggregate overn ight l im it of $0.5 m i l l ion. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowings are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or mu l t icu r rency accounts w i th designated banks in Malaysia for retaining foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, w i th no l im it on the overnight balances. Pr ior approval is requ ired to retain amounts exceeding the permitted l im i t. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more for- e ign currency or mu l t i cu r r en cy accounts w i th Labuan Offshore Banks to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, subject to an aggregate overnight l im it of $0.5 m i l l i o n. Other corporate residents w i th no domestic borrow ing are allowed to open fo re ign currency accounts w i th an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks for credit- ing foreign currency receivables other than export proceeds with no possibility of keeping overn ight balances. Res ident i n d i v i d u a ls are a l lowed to open foreign currency accounts with overseas banks for education and employment purposes w i th an overnight l im it of up to $50,000. Approval required Residents w i th domestic bo r row ing requ i re p r ior approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts All commerc ial and me rchant banks are a l lowed to open these accounts. Non re s ident r ingg it accounts in Malaysia are known as external accounts. Credits to these are l im i t ed to sales of fore ign currency, r ingg it instruments, securities, or other assets in Malaysia and salaries, wages, rentals, commissions, interest, profits, or dividends. Debits to this account are also restricted to settlement for purchase of r ingg it assets and placements ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 MALAYSIA Convertible into foreign currency of deposits; payment of adm in is tra t ive and statutory expenses in Malaysia; payment for goods and services for use in Malaysia; and granting of loans and advances to staff in Ma- laysia, according to the terms and conditions of services. Prior approval is required for transfer of funds between external accounts and for uses of funds other than permitted pur- poses. Nevertheless, there are no restrictions on the operation of the external accounts of nonresidents working in Malaysia, embassies, consulates, high commissions, central banks, or supranational or international organizations in Malaysia. There is no restriction on conversion and repatriation of ringgit funds in external or special external accounts, subject to payment of the appropriate levy on profits made from portfo- lio investments. There continues to be no restriction on conversion and repatriation of sale proceeds of investment by foreign direct investors. Blocked accounts All debits and credits to accounts of residents of Israel and the Federal R e p u b l ic of Yugoslavia require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports There is a requirement to settle all imports in foreign currency. M in imum financing requirements There are m in imum financing requirements for rice, fish, and fishery products that vary, depending on the agreement between those invo lved. Advance payment requirements Due to a special agreement, there are advance payments for those se l l ing rice from Myanmar. Advance import deposits n.r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Other documents required are the invoice, the b i ll of lading, a phytosanitary certificate, and the certificate of origin. Domiciliation requirements n.r. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspections are made by independent surveyors in the case of rice imports. Letters of credit Buyers must open irrevocable LCs. Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.r. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list The authority for import control rests w i th the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the MOF. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is administered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) together w i th other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, the Department of Agriculture, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Import licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the Fisheries Development Au- thorities (LKIM). A service charge of $0.05 per kilogram is imposed on imported f ish and fishery products. The movement of l ive fish between pen insu lar Malaysia, Sabah, and Sa- rawak also requires a permit issued by the Department of Fisheries. In accordance with regulations by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of W i ld Fauna and Flora, a permit is required from the Department of W i ld l i fe for the import of endan- gered species. Permits for the importation of round cabbage and raw coffee need to be obtained from the Federal Agr icu l tural Marketing Authority (FAMA). Import quotas for round cabbage are issued every three months, wh i le import quotas for raw coffee are issued every mon th. Planting material, organic fertilizer, processed m ineral clay, and processed sand requ ire import permits issued by the Department of Agriculture under the Plant Quarantine Act. Importation of unprocessed food and planting materials from tropical America and Central A f r ica to Malaysia is prohibited under the same Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 569 Effec t ive February 10, 2000, approval from the Ministry of Health is required to import 19 chemical substances. Effective January 11, 2001, purchases of motherboards for radio and telecommunications devices, except for those for radio communications apparatus capable of being used for telecommunications in the frequency band lower than 3000 gigahertz, requ ire a license from the Telecommunications Department. Import licenses for rice are issued by the M in is try of Agr icu l ture. Certain imports are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, wh ich are reviewed pe r iod ica l ly, to protect local indus tr ies temporarily when required. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import du ty exemp t ions are provided to intermediate manufac tured goods and rice. Effec- t ive January 1, 2000, duties on 90% of products were reduced to less than 5% and du t ies were who l ly eliminated on 60% of the products. An t idump ing duties were imposed on PVC f loor covering, self-copy paper, and corrugating med ium paper from specified compan ies to the ir related companies. On February 15, 2000, temporary an t idump ing du t ies were im- posed on imports of gypsum boards. State import monopoly Under the privatization agreement, the corporation BERNAS has been granted the sole right to import rice into Malaysia for 15 years, beginning in 1996. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than six mon ths after the date of expor- tation. Export proceeds must be received only in foreign currency. Exporters are allowed to retain the ir export proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th designated banks w i th an overnight l im it of between $1 m i l l i on and $10 m i l l i o n, or any higher approved amount. F inanc ing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Exports of rubber from pen insu lar Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Ma lays ian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes n . r. n.r. n .r. The export of l ive f ish is subject to p resh ipment inspection and, if requested, a certificate of hea l th, a certificate of sanitation, and a certificate of or ig in may be issued by the De- partment of Fisheries. Export licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the LK IM. A service charge of $0.05 per kilogram is imposed on imported fish and fishery products. The movement of l ive fish between Pen insu lar Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak also requires a pe rm it issued by the Department of Fisheries. For the export of endangered species (in accordance w i th the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of W i ld Fauna and Flora), a perm it is required from the Department of W i ld l i f e. Export licenses or permits from the FAMA are required for exports of starfruit to western Europe, west Asia, and Hong Kong; exports of garlic to the EU; and the export of Eksotika papaya overseas. Exports of plants, seeds, or shoots for purposes of propagation requ i re export p e rm i ts issued by the Department of Ag r icu l tu re. Export incen t ives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The p r ima ry incen t ives inc lude a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit ref inanc ing, and duty drawbacks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 MALAYSIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia may be made without restriction. Remittances to nonresidents of profits on all bona fide investments are permitted upon the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceed- ing the equivalent of RM 10,000. Remittances of interest payments do not require prior approval as long as such payments are in accordance with the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule specified in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must undertake all purchases and sales of ringgit securities through author- ized depository institutions. Effective February 1, 2001, nonresident sellers of Malaysian securities may repatriate profits free of levy if the profits are repatriated more than 12 months from the month the profits are realized. Before this date, a graduated system of exit levies was in place: for investments made prior to February 15, 1999, capital was levied at 30% if repatriated w i th in seven months after entry; at 20% if repatriated between seven and nine months after entry; and at 10% if repatriated 9 to 12 months after entry. Capital repatriated more than one year after entry was not levied. For investments made on or after February 15, 1999, the original capital was not levied, but the repatriated capital gains arising from portfolio investments were as follows: capital gains repatriated within 12 months after the gain was realized were levied at 30%, and for those repatriated after more than 12 months at 10%. Nonresident sellers of Malaysian securities may repatriate the proceeds at any time. A standard 10% exit levy on profits arising from portfolio in- vestments has been implemented. Profits made from investments in MESDAQ (Malaysian Exchange of Securities Dealing and Automated Quotation) are exempted from the exit levy regulations. During 2000, original nonresident owners of securities purchased on the Singapore Central L im it Order Book Trading System were allowed to repatriate all funds arising from the sale of these securities w i thout payment of the exit levy. Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply for transactions valued at less than RM 10,000; but for those amounting to RM 10,000 or more, prior approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents No exchange controls apply to residents on the sale of securities abroad. However, resi- dents must obtain approval to issue securities abroad. Approval is given if the proceeds associated w i th these issues are used to finance productive activities in Malaysia, particu- larly for projects that generate foreign exchange earnings or save on the fu ture outflow of foreign exchange through the production of import substitution goods. The proceeds from the sale or permitted issuance of securities are required to be transferred to Malaysia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 571 Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issuance by non res iden ts requ i res approva l. Purchase abroad by residents The same cond i t ions app ly as for shares or other secu r i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issuance by res iden ts requ i res approva l. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Purchase abroad by residents The same r egu l a t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A dm i n i s t r a t i v e l y, when res iden ts issue money ma rket i n s t r um e n ts abroad, it is considered to be ob t a in ing c red it f a c i l i t i e s. Res iden ts are f ree ly pe rm i t ted to ob ta in c red it f a c i l i t i es in foreign currency on ly up to RM 5 m i l l i on or its equ iva len t. For amoun ts exceeding th is, prior approval is required. Approval is given for foreign currency credit fac i l i t ies raised on reasonable terms to f inance p roduc t ive ac t iv i t ies in Malaysia, pa r t icu la r ly for projects that generate s u f f i c i e nt fore ign exchange to service the external debt so created. There is no con trol on the sale of Ma lays ian secur i t ies in the country by nonres iden ts. However, repa tr ia t ion of p ro f it realized from investments held on a por tfo l io basis, if repatriated w i th in 12 months from the month it is noted in the account, is subjected to a 10% ex it levy on prof i ts from inve s tmen ts made after February 15, 1999. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same r egu l a t ions apply as for shares or other secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital flows for the purpose of trading in derivatives in the Commodity and Monetary Exchange of Ma lays ia and the Kua la L um p ur Options and F inanc ial Futures Exchanges by nonres iden ts do not requ i re approval when the transactions are conducted th rough a designated external account. Prior approval is required for nonresidents to buy or sell forward ringgit against foreign currency. However, non res iden ts are allowed to buy ou tr ight forward r ingg it to settle trades done on the K u a la L um p ur Stock Exchange (KLSE) for tenure of not more than three wo rk ing days. This is on ly app l icab le to f i rm, comm i t ted trades and not to anticipated market purchases. Purchase abroad by residents A resident must obtain permission to make payments to a nonresident for any spot or for- ward contract or in terest rate fu tu res not transacted at a fu tu r es exchange in Ma lays ia. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Res iden ts mu st ob ta in pe rm iss ion to issue and to sell f in an c i al in s t rum en ts abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents No controls apply to residents in the extension of trade credit to nonresidents for export of goods from Ma lays ia up to a m a x im um period of six mon ths from the date of export. Res iden ts are pe rm i t ted to obtain credit fac i l i t ies in foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of RM 5 m i l l i on in the aggregate from licensed banks, licensed me rchant banks, and non- residents. Any larger amount wou ld requ i re p r ior approva l. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in r ingg it from nonresidents. There is no control for residents to obtain com- merc ial c red i ts from non re s iden ts for the impo r ta t ion of capital goods for a period not ex- ceed ing 12 mon th s. No controls app ly to credits of less than RM 10,000 granted by residents in fore ign cur- rency or r ingg it to nonres iden ts. R ingg it loans may be extended by bank ing in s t i tu t ions up to an aggregate amount of RM 200,000 for purposes other than f inanc ing immovab le prop- erties in Ma lays ia. For re s iden t ial property, f in an c ing is allowed for up to 60% of the pu r- chase p r ice for con s t ruc t ion. App roval is requ i red for cred it f a c i l i t i es exceeding the l im i t. E f f e c t ive December 15, 2000, res ident comme rc ial banks may extend to non re s ident stock- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 MALAYSIA To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment broking companies and global custodian banks intraday ringgit credit fac i l i t ies in aggregate not exceeding RM 200 m i l l i on and overnight cred it fac i l i t ies in aggregate not exceeding RM 10 m i l l ion for f inanc ing of f u n d i ng gaps arising from unforeseen or inadver tent techn i- cal delays in relation to settlement of trades on the KLSE. The overnight l im it extended for a transaction is l im i t ed to three wo rk ing days, after wh ich the fac i l i ty has to be repaid. Residents are permitted to obtain total credit in foreign currency of up to RM 5 m i l l i on from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any larger amount wou ld require prior approval. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresi- dents. These transactions are permitted subject to in fo rm ing the COFE. However, any payment to a nonresident in relation to or as a consequence of the guarantee must be made in foreign currency. Residents are perm i t ted to obtain f inanc ial guarantees, p rov ided the aggregate amount of credit fac i l i ty, i n c l u d i ng the f inanc ial guarantee, does not exceed RM 5 m i l l i o n. There is, however, no control on the amount of financial guarantee to be obtained from offshore banks in Labuan. In all cases, all payments related to the guarantees are made in foreign currency; otherwise, approval is required. Inves tmen ts abroad exceeding RM 10,000 in any form requ i re approval. Controls are imposed on equ i ty shares in l i ne w i th the na t ional economic po l icy. The fo l- lowing inward investments require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acqu is i t ion of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acqu i s i t ion of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Ma lays ia by any means that w i ll cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acquisition of 15% or more of the vo t ing power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a fore ign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the vo t ing power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of jo in t -ven tu re agreement, management agreement, or techn ical assis- tance arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 m i l l ion in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the pa id-up capital of a Malaysian company that invo lve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the fo l low ing circumstances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 m i l l i o n; (2) the total of the foreign en t i ty's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, a foreign entity in- creases its vo t ing power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new subscription by several foreign entities increases the ir j o i nt vo t ing power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in pa id-up capital, the aggregate ho ld ing of several foreign entities increases to 30% or more of the voting power in the re levant company; and (6) an increase in the pa id -up capital of any Malaysian company to more than RM 5 m i l l ion on incorporation means that the holdings of foreign en t i t ies constitute more than 15% of the vo t ing power, or the j o i nt ho ld ings of several foreign en t i t ies cons t i tu te 30% or more of the vo t ing power of the company concerned. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the percentage of produc t ion exported, whe ther high-technology products are purchased or whe ther p r io r i ty products are produced for the domestic market. For projects i n v o l v i ng extracting, m in ing, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is pe rm i t ted. M u l t im e d ia Super Corr idor status companies are a l lowed to have 100% fore ign equ i ty. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment The proceeds of inves tmen ts may be repatriated freely after resale, upon the comp le t ion of a statistical form, for amounts of RM 10,000 or more. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 573 The same regulations apply as for purchases of shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture abroad by residents. Under Special Guidelines, no limitation or condition is imposed on the purchase of residen- tial, shop lot, and office space by foreigners subject to the fo l low ing criteria: (1) the pu r- chase price under consideration must be more than RM 250,000; (2) the project must be newly completed or at least 50% complete; and (3) f inanc ing for the above acqu is i t ion must be obtained from f inanc ial institutions outside Malaysia. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents The same regulations apply as for financial credits. To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Yes. n .r. n.a. n.r. No. On ly authorized dealers and permitted merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in for- eign currency from nonresidents. Other f inanc ial institutions are subject to pr ior approval if the aggregate amount exceeds RM 5 m i l l ion. Maintenance of accounts abroad Only authorized dealers in foreign currencies and merchant banks are permitted to ma in ta in accounts abroad. Other credit institutions require approval to ma in ta in these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers are allowed to extend credit fac i l i t ies in foreign currency to nonres i- dents. A banking institution is, however, allowed to extend credit in ringgit: (1) to non- residents, other than banks or stockbroking companies, up to an aggregate of RM 200,000 for any purpose except to finance the acquisition or development of immovable property in Malaysia; (2) to nonresidents working in Malaysia for up to 60% of the purchase price or construction cost for residential property; and (3), effective December 15, 2000, to nonresident stockbroking companies and nonresident global custodian banks for up to RM 200 m i l l ion in intraday ringgit credit facilities or RM 10 m i l l ion in overnight credit fac i l i t ies to finance fund ing gaps ar is ing from unanticipated or inadvertent technical delays for trades made on the KLSE. The extension of loans in ringgit to nonresidents exceeding the amounts or for purposes other than those stipulated above requires prior approval. Bank ing ins t i tu t ions are not allowed to extend loans in ringgit to any foreign bank or foreign stockbroking company for purposes other than those stipulated above. Stockbroking companies are allowed to extend margin f inanc ing fac i l i t ies to nonres ident clients for the purchase of shares listed on the KLSE, subject to compliance w i th ru les imposed by the KLSE. Authorized dealers and merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. A resident borrower, however, requires pr ior approval if total aggregate borrow ing exceeds RM 5 m i l l ion. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are allowed, provided that the issuance of the securities has been approved and the investment financed solely from the bank ing ins t i tu t ion 's offshore borrowings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 MALAYSIA Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Investment in equity and property and purchases of debt securities in excess of RM 10,000 require prior approval. Foreigners are genera l ly l im i t ed to an aggregate participation of not more than 30% equ i ty interest in a bank. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The criteria in de te rm in ing banks' net overnight foreign currency open position l im i ts are based on a matrix that takes into account the ir shareholders' funds and dealing capacity. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Insurers are requ ired to support the aggregate of their l iab i l i t ies and margin of solvency (referred to as "the Amount") with admitted assets as specified by the BNM. L im i ts (m i n .) on inves tment po r t fo l io he ld locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts Controls on credit operations The rules allow a licensed insurer to hold for investment purposes in respect of its Malay- sian insurance fund up to a max imum of 5% of "the Amount" in assets of a foreign jurisdic- tion with a sovereign rating that is not lower than the sovereign rating of Malaysia. How- ever, investment in any one foreign jurisdiction is restricted to 2% of "the Amount." A licensed insurer is also allowed to hold assets of a foreign jurisdiction where it is carrying on business to enable it to meet its foreign liabilities in that jurisdiction. Emp loyee P rov ident Fund (EPF) inve s tment in fore ign securities is subject to approval of amoun ts exceeding RM 10,000. The EPF is requ i red to invest a m i n im um of 50% of its annu al inve s t ib le funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, pro- v ided that the total amount of f u n ds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total inves tmen t. Un it trust funds may invest up to 10% of the f u n d 's net asset value in securities listed on foreign stock exchanges. Prior approval from the Securities Commission is required for such investment. There are no controls on foreign f i rms trad ing in the corporate debt, equity, and de r iva t ive markets. Under FIC gu ide l ines, however, the fo l low ing should be observed: (1) any pro- posed acqu is i t ion of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or asso- ciated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and take- overs of companies and businesses in Malaysia, whe ther by Malaysian or foreign interests; and (3) any other proposed acqu is i t ion of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 m i l l i on in value, whe ther by Malaysians or foreign interests, requ ire approval. Foreign companies w i th no subs tan t ial business operations in Malaysia are not no rma l ly granted l i s t ing on the local stock exchange. Changes During 2000 January 1. Duties on 90% of products were reduced to less than 5% and duties were e l im ina ted on 60% of the products. February 10. App roval from the M in i s t ry of Health is requ i red to import 19 chem ical substances. February 15. Temporary an t idump ing du t ies were imposed on imports of gypsum boards. January 1. Or ig inal non res ident owners of secur i t ies purchased on the Singapore Central L im it Order Book Trad ing System were a l lowed to repatriate all f u n ds a r is ing from the sale of these secur i t ies w i t h o ut payment of the exit levy. December 15. Bank ing ins t i tu t ions were allowed to extend credit of up to RM 200 m i l l ion in intraday ringgit credit fac i l i t ies or RM 10 m i l l ion in overnight credit facilities to nonresi- dent stockbroking companies and nonresident global custodian banks to finance fund ing gaps arising from unanticipated or inadvertent technical delays for trades made on the KLSE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 575 Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 11. Purchases of motherboards for radio and telecommunications devices, except for those for radio communications apparatus capable of being used for telecommunica- tions in the frequency band lower than 3000 gigahertz, require a license from the Tele- commun ica t ions Department . Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 1. Nonresident sellers of Malaysian securities were allowed to repatriate profits free of levy if the profits are repatriated more than 12 months from the month the profits are realized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ma ld ives is the Ma ld iv ian rufiyaa. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. Once the exchange rate is set, the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) buys and sells currency at a spread of Rf 0.10, w i th in wh ich commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers must also operate. To promote stability and ma in ta in confidence, the authorities have de facto kept the exchange rate stable vis-a-vis the dollar since October 1994. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) n.a. n.a. No. No. Yes. No. Transactions in gold are not subject to regu la t ion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 577 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts he ld by residents and those he ld by nonres iden ts. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirement s for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the M in is try of Trade and Industries (MTI). Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas All goods may be imported under an OGL system. Licenses are issued on application. All private sector imports of rice, wheat f lour, and sugar are subject to a quota. Other nontariff measures P roh ib i t ions ar e imposed upon imports in accordance with UN sanctions. Import taxe s and/or tar iffs Duties are levied on all merchandise items other than rice, f lour, and sugar. E f fec t ive May 31, 2000, a new law introduced the Harmonized System of Tariff Nomenclature and cataloged imports in l ine with standard international classification. The new tariff structure has n ine bands, ranging from zero for staple goods to 100% for cars and 200% for plastic bags, w i th an estimated average nom inal duty rate of about 20%. The tar iff on cigarettes was changed from an ad valorem rate of 50% to a specific rate of Rf 0.30 per cigarette or Rf 6 per package. In addition, the tariff rate on electrical and electronic equ ip- ment was reduced to 5% from 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Export licenses are issued by the MTI. The private sector may export most items, w i th the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Quotas for exports of aquar ium fish are in effect. Exports o f f i sh and fish products and reexports are exempt from duties. However, a 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 MALDIVES Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents A l though no law proh ib i ts these purchases, there is a control on the foreign purchase of shares placed by some companies that have floated their securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except commercial banks, natural and ju r id ical persons may not extend credit and charge interest without the approval of the MMA. However, locally incorporated offshore banks are allowed to extend f inanc ial credits to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Investments require prior approval from the government. Investors are required to provide at least 75% of the ir capital investment in cash or goods financed from outside Maldives. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gamb l ing is not allowed in Maldives. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to 25% of the in i t ial capital investment made by foreign investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws MALDIVES 579 Interest rate control exists in the case of local currency only, as the annual rate of interest chargeable on loans and advances may not exceed 20%. Yes. Yes. n .r. No. Imports and import payments May 31. A new law introduced the Harmonized System of Tariff Nomenclature and made several changes to the tariff rates. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris for- eign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is no exchange tax, but foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp duty. In addition, banks charge a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover with the prior authorization of the MOF to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. For certain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Mali is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the authority to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report those operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO invo lve residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 580 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency MALI 5 81 Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ru l ing by the MOF, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. Imports and exports of gold require authorization from the MOF. The fo l low ing are ex- empt from this requirement: (1) gold imported or exported by the MOF or the BCEAO; (2) manufactured articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles; and (3) gold articles with a combined weight of up to 500 grams imported or exported by travelers. Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries are not allowed to take out BCEAO banknotes. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 requires documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes, or their purchase through a means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. The opening of such accounts requires the prior authorization of the MOF. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside WAEMU countries, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the authorization of the MOF w i th BCEAO concurrence. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 MALI Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements A domiciliation requirement exists for all imports exceeding CFAF 5 million. Preshipment inspection An inspection for quality and price is required. Letters of credit LCs are required for imports of goods outside EU, Operations Account, and ACP countries. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import licensing requirements, but imports are required to be registered and permits are issued automatically. Import taxes and/or tar iffs On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a GET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a customs duty of up to 5% and a customs service fee of 5%. Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and are based on c.i.f. values. Petroleum is subject to a vari- able levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5% to 55%, wh ich have been temporarily suspended since 1994. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export pro- ceeds, excluding proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. F inan c ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled, with the exception of transfers made through the intermediation of the post administration; exports without payments in- volved; and certain special exports. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require only a certificate of registration. There are no restrictions as to the value or quantity of exports. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments of inv is ib le transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries l inked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. For payments for inv is- ibles to other countries not exceeding CFAF 300,000, no supporting documents are re- qu ired. Payment s related to trade above th is amount are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Investment-related payments Authorized banks may transfer, on their own responsibility, profit payments based on supporting documentation. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Payment of study abroad costs and medical expenses are allowed freely on the basis of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 583 Foreign workers' wages The transfer of salaries is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- v ided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement w i th the foreigner's country of nationality. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit cards issued by specialized resident financial intermediaries and authorized banks may be used abroad. Yes. There are no quantitative limits on the use of credit cards abroad. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions w i th countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU member countries, must be surrendered w i th in one month after the due date of the receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movements between Mali and France, Monaco, and the countries l inked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions. Capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the MOF, and a maximum of 75% of invest- ment abroad may be financed by foreign loans. Capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. The l iqu ida t ion of foreign investment is subject to reporting to the MOF, and the reinvest- ment of proceeds is subject to prior authorization. If no authorization is given for the rein- vestment, the proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized interme- diary bank w i th in one month. There are no controls on transfers related to the sale of foreign securities by residents and to proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. Foreign investment in WAEMU countries is subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The pr ior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of investments abroad. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents For nonresidents, pr ior au thor iza t ion by the MOF is requ ired. Residents may acqu i re these securities by ob ta in ing a perm it from the MOF. There are no restrictions on the sale of se- curities constituting disinvestment. Payments for sales by transfer abroad or by cred it to a nonresident account, however, require an exchange permit approved by the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization from the MOF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to transfer these securities abroad. If the effect of these transactions is to place Ma l ian resident institutions under foreign control, the foreign investors concerned are required to report in advance to the MOF. The same r u le applies to d is inves tmen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 MALI Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be surrendered to a domestic authorized bank. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase may be effected through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These sales require prior authorization of the MOF, except for disinvestments. Transfers of the proceeds require an exchange permit approved by the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization from the MOF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell money market ins t rumen ts abroad. Sales cons t i tu t ing disinvest- ment are subject to prior disclosure. The foreign currency proceeds of such sales or d i s in- vestment must be surrendered to a licensed banking intermediary. The issue abroad of money market ins t rumen ts by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization is requ ired. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization is required. Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations These ins trumen ts, wh ich are v i r tua l ly nonexistent, are governed by the regulations gener- ally applicable to securities and investments. Residents are allowed to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and securities. Commercial credits Special controls apply for borrowing outside the region. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these credits is subject to the following provisions: (1) Any c la ims generated by the export of goods must be collected, and the corresponding amounts must be repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the due date of the payment stipulated in the commercial contract. In principle, the grace period should not exceed 120 days fo l low ing the arrival of the merchandise at its destination. (2) Any claims generated by the provision of services must also be collected and then surrendered on the exchange market w i th in one month, at most, of the due date of the payment, for which no l im it is set. There are no controls on the granting of these credits; the ir repayment is generally author- ized, subject to the licensed intermediary being presented with documentation attesting to the reality of the commercial transaction or to the provision of services. The granting of financial credits is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose requires prior MOF approval. There are no controls on these credits. However, if these transactions are carried out be- tween a direct investment enterprise established in Ma li and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investment and, as a result, are subject to prior d isc losure to the MOF. The granting of guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad requires an exchange pe rm it approved by the MOF. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment All outward investments by residents require the prior authorization of the MOF. These investments may be financed up to 75% by external borrowing. MOF authorization is not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment MALI 585 needed for purchases of foreign securities issued or sold in WAEMU member states if the issue or sale by nonresidents was authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investments between WAEMU member states are free, but they must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Liquidation of a resident's foreign investments must be reported for informa t ion purposes to the MOF. Reinvestment of the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion requires the M in i s t ry 's p r ior authorization. If the reinvestment was not authorized, the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. Foreign investments may be transferred freely from Mali and must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Loans The proceeds of the sale or l iqu ida t ion of fo re ign direct inve s tment or the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs, upon presenta- t ion of supporting documentation to the MOF and receipt of the latter's response. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is requ ired. To residents from nonresidents Loans contracted by residents w i th nonresidents for domestic use must be transacted through authorized intermediaries in all cases, except if specifically exempted by the MOF. The authorized intermediaries safeguard the proper execution of the transaction. All bor- row ing from nonresidents is subject to pr ior MOF au thor iza t ion. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Payments relating to inheritances and legacies are generally authorized. Payments in con- nection w i th g i f ts or donations, however, require the pr ior authorization of the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Immigrants acquiring resident status must obtain the prior authorization of the MOF for the payment of debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are a l lowed upon presentation of proof of emigration to the MOF. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Licensed in termed iar ies are free to borrow abroad. Other credit in s t i tu t ions are governed by general prov is ions app l icab le to other residents. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are not authorized to hold l iqu id assets ou ts ide the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of the ir current operations. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the pr ior au thor iza t ion of the MOF and the BCEAO is requ ired for loans and f inanc ial credits. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO is requ i red for loans and f inanc ial credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required. Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MALI Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Yes. Yes. n .r. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Insurance Market Conference. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment por tfo l io held abroad L im i ts (m in . ) on investment por tfo l io held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Imports and import payments January I. The WAEMU introduced a CET w i th four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%) for all member countries except Guinea-Bissau. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese l ira. Malta has 23 denom ina t ions of gold coins that are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. C lass if icat ion Conven t ional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the Maltese l i ra is de term ined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies compr is ing the do l lar, the euro, and the pound sterling. Unless market cond i t ions indicate otherwise, a variable spread of approximately 0.125% is applied to the middle rate to compute the buy ing and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and the credit ins t i tu t ions (authorized banks) and f inanc ial institutions. These trans- actions may be conducted in dollars, euros, or pounds sterling, normally in amounts not less than Lm 150,000. Transactions may also be carried out between authorized banks. There is no l im it on the spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates the credit institutions may quote. Authorized banks and financial institutions may also establish rates for currencies not quoted by the CBM, based on the latest in terna t ional market rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative A dm i n i s t r a t i on of control The CBM may p rov ide forward cover d irec t ly to government departments and p u b l ic sector bodies in respect of such transactions. Credit ins t i tu t ions may also prov ide forward cover to the pub l ic sector. Forward rates are based on interest rate differentials between market rates and in te rna t ional money market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Au tho r ized paymen ts to and proceeds from exports to all coun tr ies may be transacted in any foreign currency. n.a. n.a. There is an agreement w i th L ibya operated by the respective central banks to clear payments in connection w i th commercial transactions. Outstanding balances are settled in conve r t ib le cu r renc ies at the end of each quar ter. The CBM, as agent for the MOF, adm in i s te rs exchange controls. Au tho r i ty to approve and effect pa r t icu lar cu r rent and capital account transactions is delegated to au thor ized ins t i tu t ions. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the MOF delegated responsibility for the approval of inward d i rect inves tment by nonresidents to the Malta F inanc ial Services Center (MFSC), the 587 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 588 MALTA ins t i tu t ion responsible for the registration of companies and, together w i th the CBM, for superv is ing and regu la t ing f inanc ial services in Malta. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Certain restrictions on payments and transfers to Angola, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Georgia, Iraq, Kosovo, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, and the Federal R epub l ic of Yugoslavia remain in force in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. S im i lar restrictions also apply to payments and transfers to the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan). Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Trade of gold b u l l i on is exempt from exchange control procedures but rema ins subject to regu la t ions. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective January 1, 2001, residents and nonresidents may export up to Lm 1,000 a person (increased from Lm 25). Nonres ident travelers may export fore ign currency up to the amount they b r ing into the country. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the l im it for residents was increased to Lm 5,000 a t r ip (from Lm 2,500) and, on January 1, 2001, to Lm 10,000. Effective January 1, 2001, up to Lm 1,000 in notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta may be imported (increased from Lm 50). Subject to the provisions of the Money Launde r ing Act, any amount of foreign currency may be imported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Effective January 1, 2000, resident i n d i v i d u a ls may invest up to Lm 15,000 (prev ious ly, Lm 8,000) a year in savings and t ime deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. Effective January 1, 2001, this l im it was raised to Lm 30,000 and includes foreign securi- ties. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, residents may also ho ld up to Lm 2,500 in demand deposit accounts (increased to Lm 10,000 on January 1, 2001). Credit balances in these accounts may be debited on ly in connection w i th payments to nonresidents related to current account transactions. Export companies in the manu fac tu r ing sector may deposit export proceeds in such accounts for a max imum period of six months. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, th is f a c i l i ty was extended to firms in all other export-oriented activities. Effective January 1, 2001, the retention period was increased to one year. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, resident businesses in the re ta i l ing sector may hold up to Lm 2,500 (increased to Lm 10,000 on January 1, 2001) in foreign currency t ime and sav- ings deposit accounts, on the cond i t ion that the funds be used in relation to the ir bus iness activities and payments to nonres iden ts in connection w i th cu r rent account transactions. CBM approval is requ ired for any transactions i n v o l v i ng fore ign exchange accounts he ld by residents w i th local bank ing in s t i tu t ions above the l im i ts and cond i t ions stated above. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 589 Held abroad Approval required Residents are perm i t ted to open savings and t ime deposit accounts w i th nonres ident bank- ing in s t i tu t ions and, effective January 1, 2001, may deposit in such accounts a m a x im um amount of Lm 30,000 a year (p rev ious ly Lm 15,000). CBM approval is requ ired for any transactions invo lv ing foreign exchange accounts he ld by residents w i th non res ident b ank ing ins t i tu t ions ou ts ide the l im i ts and cond i t ions stated above. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Convers ion is a l lowed free ly w i th regard to all authorized transactions (m a i n ly current payments). Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited w i th f u n ds from foreign currency accounts or w i th income earned from legal activities carried out in Malta. Domestic currency accounts The same c r i te r ia app ly as for fore ign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Balances retained in blocked accounts are usua l ly l im i ted to those a r is ing from the l iqu ida t ion of investments in real estate in Malta. Such balances are tempo ra r i ly retained u n t il proof of the v a l id i ty of any agreements entered in to in terms of the u n d e r l y i ng transaction is p rov ided, and u n t il it is shown that the re levant legal and f inanc ial cond i t ions have been met. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for au thor ized imports may be made free ly, provided that currency regu la t ions are comp l ied w i th and that supporting documen ts — inc lud ing the customs entry form for imports w i th a m i n im um va lue of Lm 20,000 and the related import license, where applicable —are subm i t ted to the in termed iary bank. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Import payments must be transacted th rough authorized cred it or f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Where import licenses are requ ired, such licenses must be presented to the au thor ized c red it and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions to obtain foreign exchange. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State impo rt monopo ly The director of the Trade Services in the Commerce D iv is ion of the M in is t ry for Eco- nom ic Services adm in is ters certain import controls in l ine with the Importation Control Regulations. Licenses are requ ired only for the importation of items that need clearance for hea l th, safety, security, and env i ronmen tal reasons, as we ll as for par t icu lar ly sensitive items, such as fresh and frozen fish, handmade lace, and gold and s i lver f i l igree. All other products may be imported w i thout an import license. Impor ts o r ig ina t ing from non-EU coun tr ies may be subject to impo rt du t ies. A d d i t i o n a l l y, a n um b er of imports are subject to protective levies. The impo r ta t ion of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, and certain pe tro leum produc ts is under taken on ly by state-owned enterprises. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 590 MALTA Surrender requ i remen ts Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized credit and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. However, exporters in the manu fac tu r ing sector may retain export proceeds in fore ign cur- rency deposit accounts w i th authorized banks for up to six months to make import pay- ments connected w i th the ir exporting business. Th is re ten t ion period was extended to one year, effective January 1, 2001. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the retention of proceeds in for- e ign currency deposit accounts was extended to f i rms in all other export-oriented ac t iv i t ies. F in an c ing requ irements No. Documen ta t ion requ irements Exporters must subm it a CBM form for exports over Lm 20,000. Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. W i th the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all products may be exported f ree ly. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es may be made freely, but suppor t ing documen ts must be presented to authorized credit and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions before payment is effected. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on payments for accommodation and transportation expenses, as long as they are paid for in Malta or abroad w i th credit cards. Effective January 1, 2000, residents are entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 5,000 a t r ip (prev ious ly Lm 2,500). E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, th is l im it was increased to Lm 10,000 a person a t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amoun ts in excess of the above l im it may be granted upon subm iss ion of documentary proof of need. Personal payments Quantitative limits There are no res tr ic t ions on the transfer of pensions. Payments that are d irec t ly related to medical treatment, education, f am i ly maintenance, and a l imony are permitted, w i t h in reasonable l im i t s. E f fec t ive January 1, 2000, the annual l im it each resident may transfer abroad to other fam- ily members is Lm 5,000 (previously Lm 2,500). Effec t ive January 1, 2001, this l im it was raised to Lm 10,000 an adu lt a year. Remittances above th is l im it requ ire exchange control approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documen ts must be presented to the in te rmed ia ry bank. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Proceeds must be received w i t h in six months of payments. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized credit or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion or, if permitted by the CBM, deposited in a fore ign currency account w i th a local in s t i tu t ion. Funds deposited in fore ign currency accounts may not be used for capital transactions w i thout CBM au thor iza t ion. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal transactions Yes. Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, i n d i v i d u a ls and non fmanc ial companies are permitted to invest abroad up to Lm 15,000 (previously Lm 8,000) a year. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, the l im it on fore ign por tfo l io investments for an adu lt resident was raised to Lm 30,000 a year. Any inves tment above th is amount requ ires CBM approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 591 On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Effec t ive January 1, 2000, approval must be obtained from the MFSC to purchase or acqu ire securities that are not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange (MSE). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities may not be issued w i thout the approval of the MFSC. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Credit ins t i tu t ions and insurance companies are perm i t ted to invest in such securities as long as the ho ld ing of such inves tment is in l ine w i th p ruden t ial supe rv i s ion regu la t ions and currency exposure l im i ts s t ipu la ted by the CBM and the MFSC. Residents are permitted to sell their approved holdings of foreign portfolio investments and acquire other such investments. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, locally registered companies may l ist their securities on recognized stock exchanges overseas w i thout CBM approva l. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other secur i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are perm i t ted, but the issue of these securities requ ires the approval of the MFSC. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other secur i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct inves tment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exchange control approval is not requ i red for commerc ial credits, but export proceeds mu st be received w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t, un le ss o therw ise au tho r ized. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the max imum amount that a resident may lend to a nonres ident for a period of not less than three years was raised to Lm 20,000 from Lm 5,000. E f fec t ive January 1, 2001, th is l im i ta t ion on funds borrowed by nonresidents was l i f t ed. Loan f a c i l i- ties may now be provided for any purpose onshore, i n c l u d i ng the purchase of secu r i t ies in the domestic capital market, provided that such fac i l i t ies have a ma tur i ty of more than one year. Lend ing for a ma tu r i ty of less than one year requires CBM approval. Resident credit and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are perm i t ted to borrow from non res ident f inan- cial ins t i tu t ions as long as the ma tu r i ty period of the bo r row ing exceeds one year. Bor- rowings for periods of one year or less r equ i re CBM approval. All such bo r row ings must be reported to the CBM. These transactions are permitted if the unde r ly ing transaction may be made f ree ly und er the current exchange control regu la t ions. Companies were a l lowed to rem it up to Lm 300,000 a year (from Lm 150,000 a year) for d irect inves tment purposes. Inves tmen ts in excess of that amount requ ired CBM approval. Effective January 1, 2000, all l im i ts on the amount that resident ind iv idu a ls may transfer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MALTA Inward direct investment abroad for direct investment purposes were removed. Approval for such inves tmen t, how- ever, remains subject to the condition that the resident acquire a controlling interest in the overseas company. Details of the cond i t ion of the inves tment must be reported to the CBM annually. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the registration of companies w i th nonres ident participation was transferred to the MFSC from the CBM. Except in a few areas, direct inves tment by nonres iden ts is usua l ly perm i t ted. Direct in- vestment is u sua l ly proh ib i ted in the real estate, wholesale, and retail trade sectors (par t icu- lar ly the importation of consumer goods for resale). App l ica t ions for d i rect inve s tment in other ac t iv i t ies may also be refused if the sectors invo lv ed are considered sens i t ive from a na t ional perspective. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Approval is usually granted once f inanc ial statements and documentary evidence of the o r ig inal inves tment are submitted to the MFSC. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal cap i tal movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents E f fec t ive January 1, 2000, residents were allowed to invest up to Lm 50,000 a year in real estate abroad, subject to the presentation of documentation to the CBM. This l im it was raised to Lm 150,000 on January 1, 2001. Residents are also a l lowed to purchase real estate overseas u s ing funds already held in portfolio inves tmen ts abroad. Nonres iden ts may acqu ire immovab le property in Malta for t h e ir own residence, w i th the perm iss ion of the MOF, on the cond i t ions that the cost of the property to be acqu i red ex- ceeds Lm 30,000 in the case of an apartment and Lm 50,000 in the case of any o ther resi- dence, and that f u n ds or ig ina te from overseas. Add i t ion a l ly, there is a 5% ad va lo rem s tamp du ty on the v a lue of property sold to nonres iden ts. The MOF may a l low non res iden ts to acqu i re more than one property in spec ia l ly designated areas. Nonres iden ts are not allowed to engage in real estate property transactions in Malta, except to sell any property acquired w i th the approval of the MOF. E f fec t ive January 1, 2000, loans extended by residents to nonres iden ts were pe rm i t ted up to a l im it of Lm 20,000 (from Lm 5,000), prov ided that the loan was for a period of more than three years and related documentation was subm i t ted regu la r ly to the CBM for statistical purposes. Borrow ing in excess of Lm 20,000 and/or for a period of th ree years or less was sub ject to specific CBM approva l. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, loans extended by residents to nonres iden ts are subject to the condition that such lending be for ma tur i t ies of one year or longer. Lend ing by residents to nonres iden ts for ma tu r i ty per iods of less than one year requ i res CBM approva l. Repo r t ing is required in all cases for statistical purposes. The granting of guarantees by residents in favor of nonres iden ts was l ibera l ized, prov ided that such guarantees are related to trans- actions that are permitted under current exchange control regulations. Prior to January 1, 2001, loans in excess of Lm 5,000 could be obtained from foreign sources, prov ided that the loan was for a period of over three years and related documen ta- tion was submitted for statistical purposes. Effective January 1, 2000, borrowing in excess of Lm 20,000 w i th less than three years' m a tu r i ty was sub ject to specific CBM approval. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, borrow ing by residents from overseas was l ib e r a l i z ed, sub ject to the condition that such borrowing be for maturities of one year or longer. Borrowing by residents from nonres iden ts for m a t u r i ty per iods of less than one year r equ i r es CBM approval. Reporting is required in all cases for statistical purposes. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, the l im it on g i f ts was increased to Lm 5,000 from Lm 2,500, but there were no l im i ts for endowments, inher i tances, and legacies, a l though documentary ev idence had to be subm i t ted to an authorized credit or f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 593 Effective January 1, 2001, the l im it on g if ts was increased to Lm 10,000. All controls on payments by residents in respect of endowments to bona fide foreign in s t i tu t ions (educa- t iona l, charitable, cu l tu ra l, etc.) were removed. All transfers by resident persons for dowry payments were l ibera l ized. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, all controls on paymen ts in connec t ion w i th the se t t lement of debt by imm ig ran ts in the ir p rev ious coun try of residence were removed. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, all l im i ts on the amount of transfers of assets by res iden ts in the event of emigration were l i f ted. Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Credit ins t i tu t ions, other than those that are authorized to transact on ly in cu r renc ies o ther than the Maltese lira, as well as other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, may hold foreign assets in u n l im i t ed amounts, but are subject to p ruden t ial regu la t ions issued by the CBM. Borrowing abroad Effective January 1, 2001, resident banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are permitted to borrow from non res ident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, as long as the ma tu r i ty period of the bo r row ings exceeds one year (previously three years). Borrowings for periods of one year or less requ i re CBM approval. All borrowings must be reported to the CBM. Maintenance of accounts abroad Credit institutions may hold accounts for both l iqu id i ty and inves tment purposes, subject to p ruden t ial regulations. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing and purchases of securities abroad are permitted, subject to p ruden t ial regu la t ions regarding exposure l im i t s. Resident banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may lend any amount to nonresidents in local currency, subject to p ruden t ial regulations. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, loan fac i l i t ies may be provided for any other purpose onshore, i n c l u d i ng the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that such fac i l i t ies have a ma tu r i ty of over one year. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lend ing is perm i t ted, subject to p rud en t i al regu la t ions. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Th is is pe rm i t ted, subject to p rud en t i al regu la t ions. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Open foreign exchange position l im i ts are allowed, subject to pruden t ial regulations. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Effec t ive January 1, 2000, overseas po r t fo l io inves tmen ts by insu rance compan ies were completely liberalized, but remain subject to prudential regulations introduced by the MFSC. These regulations, issued in the form of directives, are in l ine w i th those in force in the EU. The regulations also refer to asset qua l i ty and currency matching. Inves tment management companies are permitted to inves t, w i thout l im i t, e l i g i b le f u n ds that originate from overseas from both resident and nonresident sources. In add i t ion, they are permitted to invest overseas f u n ds that originate from local sources be long ing to resi- dents, on the condition that the funds invested by the resident w i th the investment company do not exceed the yearly portfolio inves tment a l lowance (cu r ren t ly Lm 30,000 a person). Effective January 1, 2001, collective investment fund companies that collect funds in local currency from residents w i th the aim of inves t ing in local currency-denominated securities on the local market were permitted to invest up to a max imum of 5% of shareholders' f u n ds in fore ign currency assets. There are no l im i t s, however, on the amoun ts that may be invested by res ident shareholders' fund s. The same regu la t ions apply as for securities issued by non res iden ts. The same regu la t ions apply as for securities issued by nonres iden ts. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 594 MALTA Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The MOF delegated respons ib i l i ty for the approval of inward direct inves tment by nonres iden ts to the MFSC. Changes During 2000 Res ident accounts Exports and export proceeds January 1. Residents were allowed to export up to Lm 5,000 a tr ip in cash denominated in fore ign currenc y (p rev ious ly Lm 2,500). January 1. The a l lowance for inves tment in savings and t ime deposit accounts in foreign currency b y resident i n d i v i d u a ls and non fmanc ial corporate bodies, w i thout specific exchange control approval, was increased to Lm 15,000 a year from Lm 8,000 a year. January 1. F i rms in all other export-oriented ac t iv i t ies, not ju st export companies, were allowed to deposit export proceeds in savings and t ime deposit accounts denom ina ted in fore ign currenc y for a m ax imum period of six months. January 1. Res ident businesses in the re ta i l ing sector were allowed to hold up to Lm 2,500 in foreign currency t ime and savings deposit accounts, on the condition that the funds be used on ly for receipts related to the ir business ac t iv i t ies and payments to non res iden ts in connection w i th current account transactions. January 1. The retention of proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts was extended to f i rms in a ll export-oriented activities. Payments for in v i s ib le transac t ions and current transfers January 1. The annual l im it each resident may transfer abroad to fam i ly members was increased to Lm 5,000 from Lm 2,500. January 1. The travel allowance was increased to the equ iva lent of Lm 5,000 a t r ip from Lm 2,500 a tr ip. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 1. Approval to purchase or acquire securities that are not listed in the MSE must be obtained from the MFSC, and no longer the CBM. Con tro ls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment January 1. Ind iv idua ls and non fmanc ial companies are permitted to invest abroad up to Lm 15,000 a year (p rev ious ly Lm 8,000). January I. Locally registered companies may l ist the ir secur i t ies on recognized stock exchanges overseas w i thout CBM approval. January 1. The m a x im um amount that a resident may lend to a nonres ident for a period of not less than three years was raised to Lm 20,000 from Lm 5,000. January I. L im i ts on the amount that resident ind iv idu a ls may transfer abroad for direct inves tment purposes were removed. January I . The registration of companies w i th nonresident participation was transferred to the MFSC from the CBM. Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Residents were allowed to invest in real estate abroad up to Lm 50,000 a year. Controls on personal capital movements January I . Loans extended by residents to nonresidents and by nonresidents to residents for a period of more than three years were increased to Lm 20,000 from Lm 5,000. Provisions specific to institutional investors January 1. Overseas portfolio investments by insurance companies were completely l ibera l ized, but remain subject to the pruden t ial regulations introduced by the MFSC. January 1. The l im it on transfers of g if ts was raised to Lm 5,000 from Lm 2,500. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The amount in domestic currency that residents and nonresidents may import or export was increased to Lm 1,000 from Lm 25 a person (for exports) and Lm 50 a person (for imports). January 1. Residents were a l lowed to export up to Lm 10,000 in fore ign currency a t r ip (prev ious ly Lm 5,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Res ident accounts MALTA 595 January 1. Export compan ies in the manu fac tu r ing sector were allowed to deposit export proceeds in fore ign exchange accounts for a m ax imum period of one year (p rev ious ly six months) . January 1. Res iden ts were allowed to ho ld up to Lm 10,000 (p rev ious ly Lm 2,500) in demand deposi t accounts. January 1. Resident i n d i v i d u a ls may invest up to Lm 30,000 (prev ious ly, Lm 15,000) a year in savings and t ime deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. January 1. Resident businesses in the re ta i l ing sector were allowed to ho ld up to Lm 10,000 (p rev iou s ly Lm 2,500) in fore ign currency t ime and savings deposits, subject to conditions. Exports and export proceeds January I . The period for w h i ch exporters in the manu fac tu r ing sector may re ta in export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts was extended to one year from six months. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers January 1. Residents are en t i t led to a travel allowance equ iva lent to Lm 10,000 a t r ip (p rev ious ly Lm 5,000). January 1. The annual l im it each resident may transfer abroad to other fam i ly members was raised to Lm 10,000 from Lm 5,000 an adu lt a year. Capital transactions Con tro ls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 1. The l im it on foreign por tfo l io inves tmen ts for an adu lt resident was raised to Lm 30,000 a year. Controls on real estate transact ions January I. The l im it on the amount that residents may invest in real estate abroad was raised to Lm 150,000 a year from Lm 50,000. Controls on personal cap i tal move- ments January I . Loans extended by residents to nonresidents or by nonres iden ts to residents were made subject to the cond i t ion that such lend ing be for ma tu r i t ies of one year or longer. January 1. The l im it on g i f ts was increased to Lm 10,000, all controls on payments by resi- dents in respect of endowmen ts to bona f ide foreign ins t i tu t ions (educa t iona l, charitable, cu l tu r a l, etc. ) were removed, and all transfers by resident persons for dowry payments were l ibe ra l ized. January 1. All l im i ts on the amount of transfers of assets by residents, in the event of em i- gration, at the t ime of the ir establishment or du r ing the ir period of stay abroad, were lifted. January 1. All controls on payments in connection w i th settlements of debt by imm ig ran ts in their previous country of residence were removed. January 1. Bo r row ing and loan fac i l i t ies could be prov ided for any purpose onshore, in- c lud ing the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that such facilities have a ma tu r i ty of over one year. January 1. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2001, the ma tu r i ty period for loans granted to resident banks and f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions from non re s ident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions was reduced to one year or more from three years or more. Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Prov is ions specifi c to commercial banks an d other credit in s t i tu t ions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors January 1. Collective investment fund companies were permitted to invest up to a m a x im um of 5% of shareholders' f u n ds in fore ign currency assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory Banking Commissioner. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in dollars or in any other convertible currency. n.a. n.a. No. Adm in is tra t ion of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 30% of deposits received from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. 596 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 597 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirement s for release of foreign exchange for import s No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports are not subject to import licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem du t ies are lev ied on imports. Ad valorem du t ies range from 5% to 150%. Most items are charged a 5% ta r i ff rate, w h i le h igher rates are applied to motor vehicles (15%), gasoline (20%), mixed d r inks (25%), cigarettes (50%), and cigars and other tobacco (150%). Specific duties are applied to beer, wine, and spirits. State import monopo ly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the governmen t-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 598 MARSHALL ISLANDS Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Foreign investors are required to subm it applications to the Registrar of Corporations and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct inves tment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners are prohibited from owning land, but investors may obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years w i th an option to renew on land needed for their business. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: J u ly 19, 1999. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Maur i tan ia is the Mauritanian ouguiya. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. C lass if icat ion Managed floating with no pre- announced pat h for the exchange rate Effective Ap r il 17, 2000, the da i ly official exchange rate is set to the rate determined in the Extended Exchange Market (EMM) session of the p rev ious day. The Central Bank of Maur i tan ia (CBM) decides the extent of its intervention in the EMM based on observed and foreseeable market pressures; the reserve accumulation target; and the actual rates observed in transactions recorded in the preceding days by banks and exchange bureaus. Based on the central rate, the CBM uses a fixed margin of 0.75% in each d i rec t ion to ob ta in bid and offer rates, wh ich are used in all CBM foreign-exchange ougu iya transaction s w i th the treasury. All CBM foreign exchange transactions w i th banks and foreign exchange bureaus are carried in the EMM sessions. Banks and exchange bu- reaus freely con t inue to de term ine the bid and offer rates and commissions they use in transactions with their customers and among themselves. The average exchange rate is app l ied to fore ign c lea r ing transactions of the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion. This exchange rate is also app l ied to rem i t tances through the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion by Mau r i tan ian workers re s id ing abroad . Exchange tax Exchange subs id y Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requ irements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements B i la teral paymen t arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Adm in i s t r a t i on o f control No. n.a. n.a. Yes. An inope ra t ive arrangement exists w i t h in the f ramewo rk of the Arab Maghreb Un ion. A dm i n i s t r a t i on of control is vested in the CBM, the M in is try of Economy and Finance, and the M in i s t ry of Commerce (MOC). Exchange control authority to approve cu r rent in te rna t ional transac t ions is delegated to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. All imports must be registered at the CBM for statistical purposes. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Private Yes. 599 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 600 MAURITANIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency All imports and exports of gold, except manufac tured articles con ta in ing sma ll q u a n t i t i es of gold, require pr ior authorization from the CBM. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes and coins. Residents are authorized to export foreign exchange obtained legally and must p rov ide documentation to prove the source. Nonresident foreign nationals may free ly export pay- ment instruments denominated in foreign currencies. Nonresidents are free to export for- eign exchange; however, if they w ish to repurchase amounts prev ious ly surrendered in exchange for ouguiyas, they must present a receipt of sale of foreign exchange from a bank or an exchange bureau. They are exempt from th is forma l i ty for any sum not exceeding $200. Nonres ident holders of foreign accounts denominated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiyas and maintained in a licensed banking intermediary may export any amount of traveler's checks denominated in foreign currencies that have been purchased by debit to the aforementioned accounts. Imports are not allowed. Residents and nonresidents of Mauritania may import foreign banknotes freely, but residents must exchange them at an authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Exporters may open these accounts in Mauritanian banks to deposit the portion of their export proceeds that they are authorized to retain. These accounts may be debited for payment of current operations or for surrender of foreign exchange to the market. On December 20, 2000, other residents were also allowed to maintain such accounts. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may open freely accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents are not allowed to ma in ta in accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts may not be opened, except by exporters, as specified above. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Licensed in termed iary banks may open freely the fo l low ing nonres ident accounts: (1) non- resident convertible accounts, which may be denominated in foreign currencies or in con- ve r t ib le ouguiyas, and transit accounts. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited w i th transfers from abroad or from another foreign account; proceeds from the encashment of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on another foreign account opened in a Mauritanian bank to the order of the account holder; transfers issued by a licensed in te rmed ia ry bank by order of a resident in payment of transactions authorized by the exchange control reg- u la t ions; and proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange on account on the foreign exchange market (banknotes, however, whe ther foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for foreign exchange surrendered on the fore ign exchange market, f u n ds made ava i lab le abroad, w i thd rawa ls of trave ler's checks denom ina ted in a foreign currency by the ho lder, transfers in favor of ano ther fore ign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 601 account or a res iden t, checks issued by the ho lder of the account in favor of another non- resident or a resident, and withdrawals of banknotes issued by the CBM; and (2) transit accounts, wh i ch may be opened free ly by res ident consignees on th e ir books in the names of sh ipp ing companies. Conver t ib le ougu iya accounts may be credited in the same manner as fore ign exchange accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports requ ire the prior approval of the CBM. Advance import deposits n .r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Import licenses used as exchange licenses Upon presentation of the advance import notification, the importer may purchase the fore ign exchange from an au thor ized bank or an exchange bureau. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Impor ts of a few goods are p roh ib i ted for reasons of hea l th or p u b l ic po l icy. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Four du ty rates apply: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, a statistical tax of 3% is lev ied. Goods that are imported by some pub l ic enterprises or w i th external f inanc ing are exempt from all import du t ies. The four th phase of the tar iff reform came into effect on January 1, 2000, when the quota system and subsidies for rice production were eliminated. State import monopoly No. Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Su r render requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Twen ty percent of the export receipts of the state-owned ore company (SN IM) is to be repatriated via correspondents of the banks and exchange bureaus. On December 31, 2000, the su r render requ i rement of the SNIM export proceeds was reduced to 20% from 30%, the percentage of non - i ron export earnings that exporters may keep was increased to 100% from 80%, and l im i ts on the retention period for export ea rn ings were removed. F inan c ing requirements n . r. Documen ta t ion requirements Export certificates subm i t ted to the CBM for statistical purposes must spec ify the quan t i ty, va lue, and destination of all goods. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses n . r. n .r. Exports exceeding UM 20,000 must be domiciled. n.r. Exports of goods require on ly a certificate endorsed by the CBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 W i thout quotas Export taxes MAURITANIA Yes. A tax is levied on exports o f f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for specialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for sh r imp and crayfish. Other export taxes n .r. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments The signing of a contract for services rendered by nonresidents to residents is sub ject to the CBM's endorsement; foreign exchange necessary to pay for their services may be acquired upon presentation of the endorsed contract and a b i ll of costs. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments There are controls on the payment of fam i ly maintenance and alimony, but information is not available on other personal payments. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in four months. Surrender requirements Earnings from services routinely rendered abroad by residents must be domiciled at a li- censed intermediary bank. Proceeds must be surrendered in exchange for ouguiyas under the same conditions as proceeds from exports of goods. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Capital movements are subject to exchange control. Outward capital transfers requ ire CBM approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 603 Controls on der ivat ives and other in s trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations All credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies by residents to nonres iden ts are controlled. Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inves tmen ts must be declared to the CBM before they are made. Outward d irect inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. The l im i ts on commerc ial banks' net open foreign positions in foreign exchange are a max imum of 10% of net capital per currency and a max imum of 20% of net capital for a ll currencies. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2000 April 1n. The da i ly o f f ic ial exchange rate was to be set to the rate de term ined in the EMM session of the p rev ious day. December 20. All residents were a l lowed to keep domes t ica l ly he ld fo re ign exchange accounts. January 1. The fou r th phase of the tariff reform came in to effect, as the quota system and subsidies for rice production were eliminated. December 31. The surrender requ irement of the SNIM export proceeds was reduced to 20% from 30%, the percentage of non-iron export earnings that exporters may keep was increased to 100% from 80%, and the l im i ts on the retention period for export earn ings were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Mau r i t ius is the Mau r i t ian rupee. Gold coins issued in Maur i t ius are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the Mauritian rupee is broadly market determined. No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to their clients. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictibns No. n.a. n.a. Mau r i t ius is a member of the COMESA clearinghouse. Yes. No. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Restrictions are imposed in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold gold for num isma t ic purposes or as personal jewelry and ornaments. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents in Maur i t ius. Residents may hold accounts in foreign currencies with domestic and offshore banks. Held domestically Companies and i n d i v i d u a ls may ma in ta in accounts denominated in foreign currenc ies w i th commercial banks. 604 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 605 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Companies and ind iv idua ls may ma in ta in accounts denominated in foreign currencies w i th commercial banks. Offshore companies may, w i th the approval from the bank of M a u r i t i us (BOM), maintain accounts in foreign currencies with domestic banks. Companies and ind iv idua ls may maintain accounts denominated in Maur i t ian rupees w i th commercial banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Release of foreign exchange for imports of goods that are controlled for the purpose of consumer protection requires the presentation of the original import pe rm it issued by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products require phytosanitary inspection. Imports of sugarcane are prohibited. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Most imports are admitted to Mauritius under the system of OGL. Imports of potatoes and salt are subject, when necessary, to quotas. In certain cases, duty rates range up to 80%. Certain items are subject to import excise duties ranging from 15% to 400%. Petroleum products, imports of certain types of rice and flour, and 50% of imports of cement are under state monopoly. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. No. A permit is required for exports of textile products to the Un i ted States and Canada. Mauritius abides by quotas on exports of textiles and clothing to the United States and Canada under bilateral export restraint agreements. The vo lume of sugar exports to the EU is restricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Conven t ion; that to the Un i t ed States is also subject to quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 606 MAURITIUS Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market in s trumen ts On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of d irect investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase by nonresidents of shares listed on the stock exchange. However, the au thor iza t ion of the Prime Minister and the Minister of In ternal A f fa i rs is required under the Nonc i t izens Property Restriction Act for nonresidents to purchase shares not listed on the stock exchange. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. Noncitizens acqu i r ing property in Mau r i t ius must obtain the prior permission of the P r ime M in is ter and M in is ter of Internal A f fa i rs under the Noncitizens Property Restriction Act. The purchase must be financed by funds transferred from abroad th rough the bank ing system. Controls on personal cap ital movements No. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Domestic and offshore banks may lend to both residents and nonresidents in foreign currencies. The BOM must approve inves tmen ts in shares. Nonres iden ts may invest in shares of commerc ial banks listed on the Stock Exchange of M au r i t ius (SEM). In the case of banks whose shares are not listed on the SEM, the au tho r i- zation of the Pr ime M in is ter and the M in i s ter of In te rnal A f fa i rs must be sought. In both cases, bank shareholdings of 15% or more require approval of the BOM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 607 Open foreign exchange position limits A daily overall foreign exchange exposure limit of 15% in relation to Tier I capital is applicable to domestic commercial banks. Daily overall foreign exchange exposure limits of 15% and 75% in relation to the required net owned funds are applicable to foreign exchange dealers and moneychangers, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonc i t izens are not allowed to hold more than 15% of shares in the listed sugar companies. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of March 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements A floating exchange rate policy is maintained by the government, w i th Banco de Mexico (BOM) intervening in the foreign exchange market on the basis of rules-based mechan isms to m in im iz e vo la t i l i ty and ensure an orderly market. The BOM, on ins truc t ions from the Foreign Exchange Commission (made up of off ic ia ls from the MOF and the BOM), im- plements a mechanism intended to encourage purchases of foreign exchange by the BOM when there is an excess supply in the foreign exchange market, and discourage such pur- chases when there is an excess demand. This mechanism was contrived to conserve the nature of the floating foreign exchange regime. Under this mechanism, each mon th the BOM auctions among banks the rights to sell to the BOM a fixed amount of dollars in ex- change for pesos. These rights may be partially or completely exercised w i th in the mon th fo l low ing the respective auction. Holders of these rights may sell dollars to the BOM at the interbank exchange rate pub l ished for the prev ious business day, if the exchange rate is not higher than the average exchange rate for the 20 business days prior to the date on wh ich said rights are exercised. The max imum amount of rights to be auctioned per month is currently fixed at US$250 m i l l i o n. The BOM also announced that it would be prepared to auction (sell) up to US$200 m i l l i on a day, but would accept on ly those bids that are at least 2% more depreciated —in terms of pesos per dollar —than the f ix of the prev ious day. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to enter in to forward transactions that i n v o l ve currenc ies in over-the-counter markets and formal markets recognized by the BOM (curren t ly, the Ch i- cago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Mid Amer ica Com- modity Exchange, the Mexican Derivatives Exchange, and the Commodity Exchange Inc.). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. There is a payment arrangement w i th the Central Bank of Malaysia. In accordance w i th the Reciprocal Credits and Payment Agreements entered in to by the BOM w i t h the central banks of Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Ch i le, Colombia, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador , Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, paymen ts to these coun t r ies 608 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 609 may be made through the BOM and the central bank of the country concerned w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. A similar payment ar- rangement exists with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Mexico is also a member of the NAFTA. There are clearing agreements in accordance with the regional payment agreements referred to above. No. No. No. No. The customs law requ ires that persons b r ing ing in to the country an amount of cash, checks, or a combination of both exceeding the equ iva lent of US$20,000 must declare it to the customs authorities. Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The same regulations apply as for imports of domestic currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Commercial banks are permitted to hold dollar deposits in checking accounts payable in Mexico provided the holders of such accounts are (1) residents of the 20 kilometer-long strip along the northern border area of Mexico or l i v i ng in Baja Ca l i fo rn ia or Baja Califor- nia Sur, or (2) f i rms domiciled in Mexico. Commercial banks are also permitted to hold dollar deposits for f i rms established in Mexico prov ided such deposits are payable abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks are on ly perm i t ted to ho ld do l lar deposits in check ing accounts pay- able in Mexico w i th respect to o f f ic ial representations of fore ign governments and in terna- t ional organizations, in c lud ing fore ign ind iv idu a ls employed in such entities and fo re ign correspondents. In such cases, they should be registered in Mexico w i th the appropr ia te authority. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 MEXICO Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Import licenses from the M in is try of Economy (MOE) are required for only 256 of the 11,441 items on wh ich Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary im- ports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the app l ican t's import needs for n ine mon ths and may be extended for three months. Import needs are estimated at 20% above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when jus t if ied. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70% of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be ef- fected dur ing a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall l im i t. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Imports of new cars of a given manufacturer are limited to 143% of export levels of the same manufacturer. Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the MOE. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import tariffs range from zero to 30%, w i th higher rates for a few products such as clothing, footwear, and leather goods subject to a 35% tariff. Imports from members of LAIA are granted preferential duty treatment. Free trade agreements exist w i th Bo l iv ia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, the EU, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. Trade w i th Canada and the United States takes place under the NAFTA. Mexico has applied an t idump ing duties on the following products: current transformers and steel products from Brazil; textiles and articles of apparel, electric products, toys, pencils, padlocks, bicycles and bicycle tires, iron and steel valves, and chemical products from China; beef, sodium hydroxide, polyvinyl chloride, fructose, and polyestyrene from the United States; seamless steel tubes from Japan; polyester from Korea; steel products from Canada, Ukraine, and Venezuela; chemical products from Denmark; and frozen beef from EU countries. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not requ ire licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to drugs, narcotic substances, endangered species, and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Export taxes are l im i t ed to endangered species' skins, tu r t le o i l, and electricity, among others. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Under the insurance law, it is prohibited for foreign insurance companies to enter into the following types of contracts: (1) insurance of persons when the person is located in Mexico at the time the contract is closed; (2) insurance of hu l ls of ships or airships and of any class of vehicle against risk proper to the maritime and transport class of insurance when the ships, airships, or vehicles are registered in Mexico or are property of residents of Mexico; (3) credit insurance when the insured is subject to Mexican laws; (4) insurance against c iv il l iab i l i ty derived from events that may occur in Mexico; and (5) other classes of insurance against risks that may occur in Mexican territory. Reinsurance may be contracted w i th foreign reinsurance companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 611 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Such laws specify activities where invest- ment is reserved to the government or Mexican investors. No tw i ths tand ing these restric- tions, if certain requirements are met, the Foreign Investment Law a l lows foreign investors to purchase equity securities traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (MSB). Thus, w i th the authorization of the MOE, investment trusts may be established by Mexican banks acting as trustees. These trusts issue ordinary participation certificates that may be acquired by foreign investors; the certificates grant only economic rights to their holders and do not confer vo t ing rights in the companies whose stock is he ld by the trus ts (such vo t ing r igh ts being exercisable only by the trustee). Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities in Mexican territory. Foreign securities pub l ic ly offered in the domestic market must be approved by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). Purchase abroad by residents Controls apply to the purchases of foreign securities by Mexican securities f i rms and banks for the ir own account. Sale or issue abroad by residents Domestic securities offered in foreign markets must be registered w i th the Na t ional Registry of Securities and Intermediaries (NRSI). Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Purchase abroad by residents Con tro ls apply to the purchases of foreign securities by Mexican securities f i rms and banks for their own account and on the account of their clients. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Irrespective of the ho lder's nationality, l im i ts are imposed on ind iv idual ho ld ings of shares issued by mu tu al funds organized pu rsuant to the Investments Societies Law. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad bv residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 612 MEXICO Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners are restricted to inves t ing in p u b l i c ly traded options when inves tmen ts in the unde r ly ing shares or other securities of a participating nature of such options are reserved exclusively for Mexican residents. Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in hab i tual commercial activities in the Mexican territory. The under ly ing asset of pub l ic ly traded equity options must be registered with the NRSI and the MSB where the option is traded. Options on foreign stock exchange ind ices need the approval on the respective index by the MSE where the option is traded. Furthermore, foreign derivatives pub l ic ly offered in the domestic market must be approved by the CNBV. Purchase abroad by residents Controls apply to Mexican financial institutions with respect to the type of transactions they can enter into and amounts related thereto. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same controls apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to ind iv idual borrowers and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. To residents from nonresidents There are l im i ts on credits granted to Mexican banks denominated in foreign currency and on open foreign exchange positions. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment There are limits on the amount that banks are allowed to lend to ind iv idu al borrowers and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. It is prohibited to contract guarantees with foreign companies to in su re actions of persons who must f u l f i ll obligations in Mexican territory, except for re-guarantee operations. If certain conditions are satisfied, the ownership by foreign investors of 100% of the capital stock of a Mexican company is permitted. The law sets forth wh ich ac t iv i t ies of the econ- omy are reserved to the government or to Mexican investors and lists the d ifferent activities in which foreign investment may not exceed 10%, 25%, and 49% of the total investment. Direct or indirect investment by a foreign government or state enterprise in f inanc ial institutions is prohibited except for commercial banks, limited-scope f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, f inanc ial ho ld ing companies, securities specialists, securities f irms, general deposit ware- houses, f in an c i al leasing companies, savings and loan companies, factoring companies, foreign exchange firms, mutual funds, and companies managing mu tual funds or pension funds, where the restriction applies to investment by entities that exercise governmental authority. Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the government: petroleum and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive m ine ra ls; telegraph; radiotelegraphy; postal service; issuance of paper money; m i n t i ng of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, airports, and heliports. Investments in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican i n d i v i d u a ls or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and l iqu i f i ed pe tro leum gas; radio and te lev is ion broadcasting services other than cable te lev is ion; ground transport of passengers, tour ism, and load ing ( ex c lud ing courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions, development banks; and certain professional and technical services. Notwithstanding these restrictions, foreign investors may invest in these activities through the acquisition of ordinary participation certificates issued by investment trusts established by Mexican banks acting as trustee, wh ich grant on ly economic r igh ts to t h e ir holders. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 613 Investments exceeding 49% in the fo l low ing sectors and companies require prior authoriza- t ion from the Na t ional Foreign Inves tment Comm iss ion: acqu is i t ion in a Mexican corpora- t ion if the total va lue of assets exceeds the equ iva lent of approx ima te ly US$75 m i l l i o n; port services for in te r ior nav iga t ion; sh ipp ing companies dedicated on ly to the export of h igh- speed ships; adm in is tra t ion of air te rm ina ls; ce l lu lar telephones; cons truc t ion of p i p e l i n es for oil and other derivatives; oil and gas d r i l l i n g; legal services; private education; credit information companies; securities rating institutions; insurance agents; and bu i ld ing, opera- tion, and exploitation of railway lines, if they are for general lines of communication, and the pub l ic service of railway transportation. L im i ts on m a x im um fore ign inve s tmen ts are applied to the fo l low ing sectors: cooperative produc t ion en t i t ies (10%); air transportation (25%); certain f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions (49%); m anu f a c tu r ing of explosives and f i rea rms (49%); newspapers for na t ional d i s t r ibu t ion (49%); acqu is i t ion of "T" shares that represent the value of land used for agriculture, livestock, and forestry purposes (49%); f i sh ing, other than aquaculture, in coastal and fresh waters or in the Exclusive Economic Zone (49%); interior navigation and coastal sailing, except tourist cruises and the exploitation of dredges and other marine devices for ports (49%); integral harbor administration (49%); port pilot services for in ter ior navigation (49%); supply of fue ls and lub r ican ts for ships, a ircraf t, and railroad equ ipment (49%); us ing, u t i l i z i n g, or exp lo i t ing a f requency band in na t ional te r r i- tory, except for the free use spectrum and the o f f ic ial use spectrum (49%); in s ta l l ing, oper- ating, or exp lo i t ing pub l ic te lecommun ica t ions ne tworks (49%); occupy ing geostationary orbital positions and satellite orbits assigned to the country or exp lo i t ing the correspond ing frequency bands (49%); and exploiting signal transmission and reception rights of fre- quency bands associated with foreign satellite systems that may cover or render services in the national territory (49%). No shareholder, regardless of na t iona l i ty, is authorized to own d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly: (1) more than 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a bank ing ins t i tu t ion, securities firm, or financial holding company. This percentage may be increased to 20% if the financial authorities so authorize. The per-shareholder l im i ts do not apply to any foreign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion that, in accordance w i th an in te rna t ional trade treaty, estab- lishes a subsidiary of any of such ins t i tu t ions; and (2) more than 20% of the shares re- presenting the capital stock of an insu rance company, except for any fo re ign f i n a n c i al ins t i tu t ion that, in accordance w i th a program approved by the MOF to acqu ire a Mex ican- owned insurance company, acquires u l t ima te control of that insurance company. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents These controls apply to the direct acqu is i t ion by fore ign nonres iden ts of real estate ins ide a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50-kilometer strip in land from the Mexican coast. In addition, foreign nonresident investors may acquire real estate through Mexican companies, according to whose bylaws, these non res iden ts w i ll cons ider themselves Mexican, and refra in from invok ing the protection of th e ir gove rnment regard- ing the property acquired and the ir r igh ts to the real estate w i t h in the zone def ined above. Such acquisitions may take place (1) through the acqu i s i t ion of shares of Mex ican compa- nies dedicated to nonresidential activities w i th pr ior no t if ica t ion to the M in i s t ry of Foreign Affairs or (2) through a real estate trust for residential activities. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Effec t ive January 1, 2000, new capitalization ru les issued by the MOF entered in to force. On that same date, commercial banks were allowed to enter into secur i t ies loan transac t ions w i th Un i ted Mexican States bonds. E f fec t ive March 9, 2001, banks that ob ta in an un cond i- t ional warranty from foreign na t ional en t i t ies may, w i th BOM approval, be exempt from the l im i ts on foreign currency l iab i l i t ies and inves tmen ts for fore ign exchange transactions, provided that the long-term debt of the warrantor is rated at least A A- or Aa3. Borrowing abroad is perm i t ted subject to the l im i ts on the l i a b i l i t i es of comme rc ial banks denom ina ted in foreign currency and on open fore ign exchange pos i t ions. Mex ican banks may ho ld accounts abroad, but must m a i n t a in an e q u i l i b r i um be tween t h e ir open pos i t ions in fore ign exchange and dome s t ic cu r rency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 MEXICO Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to ind iv idual borrowers, regardless of the ir nationality, and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange There are l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to i n d i v i d u al borrowers and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Irrespective of the currency denomination, banks may only enter into transactions on the ir own account with respect to securities registered with the NRSI through securities firms, except for securities issued by banks. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities Banks must invest in l i q u id assets, as de term ined by the BOM and denom ina ted in fore ign currency, an amount calculated through the ma tu r i ty s truc ture of the ir l iab i l i t ies payable in fore ign currency. Controls apply on types of transactions in to wh ich banks may enter and amoun ts related thereto. No shareholder, regardless of its na t iona l i ty, is authorized to own, d irec t ly or ind irec t ly, more than 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a bank ing in s t i tu t ion. How- ever, th is percentage may be increased to 20% if the MOF so authorizes. The per- shareholder l im i ts do not apply to any foreign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion that, in accordance w i th a trade treaty, establishes a bank subsidiary. Irrespective of the counterparty's residence, total l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denom i- nated in or referred to foreign currency (excluding cash and h igh ly l iqu id assets, as deter- mined by the central bank) must not exceed an amount equal to 183% of the basic capital stock of the respective bank (calculation of the basic capital stock reflects the capitalization procedure set under the Basel accord). Aggregate short positions subject to foreign exchange risk of each commercial bank must equal the aggregate long positions of that bank each day. Notwithstanding this requirement, the central bank allows short or long aggregate positions, or positions referred to the dollar, at the end of each day provided they do not exceed 15% of the bank's net capital (net capi- tal being calculated pursuant to rules issued by the MOF). Banks may record short or long positions referred to ind iv idual currencies other than the dollar in amounts equal to or less than 2% of the net capital of the respective bank. Such positions are va lued pu rsuant to the gu ide l ines set by the BOM. Offshore banking institutions may be authorized by the BOM, such that the positions referred to above may be determined from a long position in dollars. On nonresident assets and liabilities The same regu la t ions app ly as for resident assets and l i a b i l i t i e s. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Insurance companies may only invest in instruments pursuant to rules issued by the MOF. Such rules specify the types of instruments and amounts in wh ich insurance companies may invest. Common m u t u al f u n ds and debt ins t rument m u t u al f u n ds must invest th e ir por tfo l ios in securities registered w i th the NRSI, except for those specified by the CNBV. The same regulations apply as for l im i ts on securities issued by nonresidents. Common mu tual funds and debt in s t rument mu tual funds must invest the ir portfolios in securities registered w i th the NRSI, except for those specified by the CNBV. The invest- ment guidelines determined by such authority establish the types of instruments and the m i n im um percentage of total assets in wh ich such mu tual funds may invest. Effective March 19, 2001, common mutual funds were allowed to enter into repurchase agreements w i th commercial banks and securities firms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 615 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions Changes During 2000 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Commercial banks were allowed to enter into securities loan transactions with United Mexican States bonds. January 1. New capitalization rules issued by the MOF entered into force. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 9. Banks that obtain an unconditional warranty from foreign national entities may, with BOM approval, be exempt from the limits on foreign currency liabilities and invest- ments for foreign exchange transactions, provided that the long-term debt of the warrantor is rated at least AA- or Aa3. Provisions specific to institutional in- vestors March 19. Common mutual funds were allowed to enter into repurchase agreements with commercial banks and securities firms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 24, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are legal tender handled by the three commercial banks that are authorized,foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory banking board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts 616 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 617 Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. n.a. Importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for env i ronmen ta l, health, safety, or social reasons. Import du t ies are levied on an ad valorem or specific basis as follows: 25% on cigarettes (50% on other tobacco products), carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, d r ink mixes and preparations, coffee, tea, beer, ma lt beverages, wines, perfumes and articles con ta in ing perfumery (such as sachets), cosmetics, toiletries ( in c lud ing cologne and other to i let waters), all skin and hair applications (such as lipstick, pomades, and powders), and any other preparations not hav ing med ic inal properties; $10 per U.S. ga l lon on sp i r i ts and distilled alcoholic beverages; and $0.05 per U.S. gallon on gasoline and diesel fue l. Ad valorem duties are 3% on foodstuffs (except for fresh citrus f ru i t, for wh ich the du ty is 25%), 100% on laundry bar soap, and 4% on all other products. The ad valorem du t ies are based on the c.i.f. va lue of the goods. State import monopo ly No. Repatr iat ion requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. The Department of Health, Education, and Social A f fa i rs conducts p re sh ipment inspec t ions on foodstuffs. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The purchasing and exportation of copra and dried coconut meat y i e ld ing coconut oil are con- ducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Controls on cap ital and money market in s trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other in s trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions Yes. n.a. n.a. n .r. Foreign investors must obtain an application from the federal government and subm it it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in wh ich the business w i ll be located. Also, they must obtain a license from the federal government to engage in business or to acqu ire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and submitted to the Foreign Inves tment Board of each of the states in wh ich the business w i ll be located and operated. P r io r i t ies for fore ign inves tment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from t ime to time. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of d irect inves tment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions L e n d i ng to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks Foreign investmen t in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance w i th the laws p roh ib i t ing land ownership by foreigners. Foreign investors no rma l ly obtain long-term leases (usua l ly up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land needed for their business. Yes. n .r. The statutory lend ing l im it to any person is set at 20% of capital. Domestic banks are proh ib i ted from inves t ing in the stocks of any corporation, domestic or fore ign . In banks by nonresidents Foreign inve s tment in domestic banks may not exceed one-third of ava i lab le shares, Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: J u ne 30, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The off ic ial exchange rate of the leu against the dollar is determined daily as the weighted average of all market transactions. The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) quotes exchange rates of the leu for other currencies on the basis of the leu-dollar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the dollar and the currencies concerned in the in terna t ional market. The official exchange rate is used in accounting and statistical calculations. Ins t i tu t ions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in any currency. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Effective June 8, 2000, individuals purchasing foreign exchange at authorized banks or at foreign exchange bureaus are taxed 0.1% of the amount purchased (in lei). Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Adm in i s t r a t i on of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Effec t ive January 1, 2001, nonconver t ib le currencies may be used for payments and receipts w i th the same conditions as convertible currencies. Yes. n.a. Mo ldova has concluded agreements on settlements w i th the CIS countries p rov id ing for settlements and payments in accordance with international banking practices. Moldova is a member of the Payments Un ion w i th in the CIS; however, the arrangement is inopera t ive. The NBM has the u l t ima te au tho r i ty in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and gran t ing licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. In accordance w i th the Law on Controls on the Repatriation of Funds, Goods, and Services, the NBM provides the accounting. The MOF is responsible for controls on repatriation. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears On Apr il 7, 2000, the government concluded an agreement w i th the Russian Federation on the res t ruc tu r ing of o f f ic ial debt. 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 620 MOLDOVA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The MOF establishes regu la t ions govern ing domestic trade. Controls on external trade A license from the MOF is requ ired to conduct in terna t ional trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Nonresident banks that have loro correspondent accounts at resident banks may export or import cash in local or fore ign currency only w i th the approval of the NBM. Res ident banks with a "B" or "C" type license may freely export or import foreign currency. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The export l im it is MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonresidents; exports of domestic currency have to be declared. The l im it is the equivalent of $50,000 for both residents and nonresidents upon presen- tation of a customs declaration for the importation of the currency or approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. W i thout these documents, the l im it for residents is the equivalent of $5,000. The l im it is MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonresidents; imports of domestic currency must be declared. Foreign currency Imported currency must be declared, but there are no quantitative restrictions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Residents are entitled to open an un l im i ted number of accounts in both convertible and nonconver t ib le currencies. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks. Account holders may use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle current international transactions. Domestic transactions may be settled only after conversion into the national currency. Resident i n d i v i d u a ls may open type "A" and "B" accounts in foreign currency. There are no res tr ic t ions on the use of funds from type "A" accounts. There are, however, restrictions on the use of funds from type "B" accounts. MOF approval is required only for organizations financed from the budget. Yes. NBM approval is required, except for banks holding a "B" or "C" license. MOF approval is required on ly for organizations financed from the budget. Effec t ive November 23, 2000, resident i n d i v i d u a ls may open accounts abroad w i thout au thor iza t ion for the du ra t ion of the ir stay. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Funds from accounts in Moldovan lei may be converted into foreign exchange and may be used for current in te rna t ional transactions and for capital transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effec t ive January 1, 2001, the number of currencies in wh ich nonres ident accounts may be opened was increased. Nonresidents w i th foreign currency deposits at authorized banks in Moldova may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange mar- ket through authorized banks. Domestic currency accounts Accoun ts in lei may be opened freely by nonresidents, except non res iden ts from coun t r ies w i th whom the NBM has signed a b i la teral agreement. The latter have the r ight to open lei ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 621 accounts on ly w i th the permission of the central bank of the relevant state. Non re s iden ts have the right to open lei accounts w i th authorized domestic banks if the funds are proceeds from selling foreign currency on the Moldovan foreign exchange market; from se l l ing goods and/or services by nonresidents; from the possession, use, and adm in i s t ra t ion of nonresidents' domestic property; from domestic work ac t iv i ty by non res ident i n d i v i d u a l s; or in accordance w i th a court decision. Nonresidents may convert lei into foreign currency if the lei are proceeds from a sale of goods and/or rende r ing of services; income obtained from the possession, use, and adm in i- stration of nonresidents' domestic property; income earned by non res ident i n d i v i d u a ls from a domestic work activity; or in accordance w i th court decision. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of fore ign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontar iff measures If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated into Mo ldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effected. A contract w i th a nonresident is required for importation from abroad. Foreign exchange purchased on the domes t ic currency market must be transferred for impor ts w i t h in seven days o f the date of purchase. In the event that payment is not made, the fo re ign exchange must be sold. On March 21, 2000, a p resh ipment inspection agreement was signed w i th a fore ign com- pany. On November 3, 2000, th is agreement was abolished. The fo l low in g imports are subject to l icen s ing for the purpose of consumer pro tec t ion and en su r ing compliance w i th domestic standards: ammun i t ion, m i l i ta ry equ ipmen t, and special compounds for manu fac tu re thereof; explosive substances; nuc lear produc ts and techno l- ogy; equipment for the manufacture of medicine; medical equipment; chemicals; cultures for deve lop in g m icroorgan isms; s tupe fy ing or psychotropic materials and compounds for the ir de r iva t io n or produc t ion; poisons; chemical and biological products for protecting and s t imu la t ing th e growth of plants; tools and equ ipment for ve ter inary med ic ine; precious metals (s i lver and gold) and articles from alloys of prev ious metals; sem i -manu fac tu red articles; byproducts and wastes that inc lude precious metals, exc lud ing electronics and products that in c lude precious metals; and oil and diesel o i l. Negative list Imports of unprocessed ivory are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are several tar iff bands for imports. A zero customs tar iff is app l ied to cotton, fe r t i l- izers, pharmaceutical products, textbooks, and base metals and products thereof, as well as to other goods. No import customs du ty is imposed on goods and objects produced in and imported from Roman ia and CIS coun tr ies that have ra t if ied the Agreement on the Creation of a Free Trade Zone or w i th wh ich Moldova has conducted bilateral interstate agreements on free trade. Imported goods and services are subject to a standard VAT of 20%; impor ts of bread and bakery products and m i lk and da iry products are subject to a reduced VAT of 8%; impor ts of gas and l i q u id gases are subject to a reduced VAT of 5%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issuance of the customs declaration. Proceeds from exports of strategic goods must be repatriated w i t h in 90 days, and proceeds from goods sold on cons ignment w i t h in 365 days. The l ist of these goods is established by the gove rnmen t. Surrender requ i remen ts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 622 MOLDOVA F inan c ing requirements No. Documen ta t ion requ irements Export licenses Export taxes Presentation of an export contract and a declaration on the repa tr ia t ion of fore ign exchange proceeds is requ i red. Export licenses and norma t ive prices apply to a l im i t ed l ist of goods considered important, and for health and security reasons. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval For payments in freely convertible currencies of up to the equivalent of $1,000, a resident na tu ral person mu st show a suppor t ing document con f i rm ing the need to effect the transfer. For payments over the equivalent of $1,000, NBM approval is required. Also, resident in- d i v i d u a ls may t rans fer abroad foreign currency purchased on the in te rnal foreign currency market necessary for f am i ly expenses in the amount of up to $1,000 (or the equ iv a l en t) a quarter w i th NBM au thor iza t ion. Legal entities may effect transfers for current international payments on the basis of docu- ments con f i rm ing the need to effect these payments. Loans from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. Current payments related to these loans may be performed in accordance w i th the certificates of registration. Au thor ized banks may prov ide to resident legal entities foreign currency, cash, and/or trav- eler's checks for business travel expenses abroad up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 a person a mon th, along w i th the corresponding perm iss ion to export foreign currency. Amoun ts exceeding th is l im it requ i re NBM au thor iza t ion. Res iden ts may export up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 of foreign currency. Amoun ts in excess of th is requ i re NBM approval. The transfer of pensions from abroad as we ll as expend i tu res /a l imony for the support of fam i l ies payable to residents of Moldova is not regulated. In the case of payment for medi- cal services, study abroad costs, and the transfer abroad of a l imony for the support of fam i- lies, approval from the NBM is required for foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits A labor contract and documen ts con f i rm ing the payment of taxes are requ i red. Issuance of credit and debit cards against accounts of ju r id ical persons is allowed, and for na tural persons, issuance of deb it cards against types "A" and "B" accounts and accounts in lei is allowed. Funds from type "B" accounts and those in lei may be used for personal current expenses and business travel. The issuing bank must obtain NBM approval to issue cards from type "B" accounts and from those in lei. The l im it for the use of cards abroad is the equ iva lent of $200 a day or $5,000 a mon th, and not more than $20,000 or the equ iva lent a mon th for settlement of current transactions. Yes. Yes. Res ident na tural persons may transfer up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $1,000 in f ree ly conve r t ib le currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 623 Indicative limits/bona fide test Amoun ts in excess of $1,000 or the equ iva lent are freely approved subject to documen ta- t ion. Amoun ts in excess of th is l im it requ i re NBM approva l. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements All proceeds from inv i s ib l e s, except the ea rn ings of workers re s id ing abroad, mu st be repatriated un less the NBM approves the open ing of an account abroad. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Approval from the NBM is required for the transfer of capital to nonresidents. Investment income earned abroad by residents must be repatriated. Controls on capital and money market instruments Proceeds from loans and o ther capital f lows from non re s iden ts are to be registered w i th the NBM. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents An offer to acquire at least 25% of the total number of shares of a company, or such quan t i ty that wou ld a l low con trol over the company, must be registered w i th the N a t ion al Securities Comm iss ion. Foreign securities may be sold in Mo ldova on ly in the form of Mo ldovan Depository Re- ceipts (MDRs) issued by residents who are professional participants in the securities mar- ket. NBM approval for the exportation of capital from Mo ldova is requ i red for reg is tra t ion to issue MDRs. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is r equ i r ed. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM registration is requ i red. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM registration is requ i red. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is requ i red for fo re ign investors to purchase state secu r i t ies. A s ing le inves- tor's share (resident or non res iden t) may account for no more than 50% of the issuance of a given government security purchased in an auction or on the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBM approval is requ i red. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM registration is required. On collective inves tment secur i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents NBM registration is requ i red. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBM approval is requ i red. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM reg is tra t ion is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 MOLDOVA Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NBM registration is requ ired. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBM approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM registration is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required. To residents from nonresidents The NBM registers those credits w i th a deferred payment of more than one year. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is requ i red. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBM approval is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is required. Sale locally by nonresidents NBM approval is required to transfer proceeds. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents% Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets NBM approval is required. NBM registration is required ma in ly for statistical purposes. G i f ts and endowments are permitted with NBM approval on ly upon presentation of rele- vant documentation and on ly by a first-order relative. Inheritances in monetary form are transferred w i th NBM approval upon the presentation of relevant documentation. L im i ted to income earned and past transfers by immigrants into Moldova. Transfer abroad by emigrants NBM approval is required upon presentation of confirming documents. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Residents may export up to the equ iva lent of $5,000. Nonres iden ts are not perm i t ted to transfer gamb l ing earnings abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad NBM registration is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 625 Maintenance of accounts abroad For types "B" and "C" banking licenses, there are no controls on the opening and ma in te- nance of accounts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents NBM approval is required. Authorized banks are permitted to lend in foreign currencies only to importers that are resi- dent ju r id ical persons. Banks ho ld ing "B" and "C" licenses are permitted to lend to one another and to other economic agents using funds obtained from foreign and international f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for the f inanc ing of certain programs. Securities denominated in foreign exchange are not issued in the country. The charter of accounts does not prov ide for separate accounts in fore ign exchange; banks, however, perform separate accounting for each currency. The charter of accounts does not prov ide for separate accounts for nonresidents; banks, however, perform separate accounting for nonresidents. NBM approval is required. NBM approval is required when a share representing more than 10% of aggregate capital is acquired. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit for both long and short exchange positions is 10% of the aggregate normative capital for each currency and 20% for long and short positions i n d i v i d u a l l y. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities n.r. n .r. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Nonresidents may not issue securities w i thout the approval of the Na t ional Secur i t ies Council. L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally NBM approval is required. NBM registration is requ ired. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement June 8. I n d i v i d u a ls pu rchas ing foreign exchange at authorized banks or at fo re ign exchange bureaus were taxed 0.1% of the amount purchased (in lei). Arrangements for payments and receipts April 7. The government concluded an agreement w i th the Russian Federation on the restructuring of o f f ic ial debt. Resident accounts November 23. Resident ind iv idua ls were allowed to open accounts abroad w i thout au thor iza t ion for the dura t ion of the ir stay. Imports and import payments March 21. A preshipment inspection agreement was signed with a foreign company. November 3. The presh ipment inspection agreement was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 MOLDOVA Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts January L Nonconver t ib le currencies may be used for payments and receipts w i th the same cond i t ions as conver t ib le currencies. Nonresident accounts January L The number of currencies in which nonresident accounts may be opened was increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Mongolian togrog. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Independen t ly floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements In pr inc ip le, the off ic ial exchange rate of the togrog is set daily by the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) as the m idpo int of the previous day's average buy ing and selling rates established by transactions among participants in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, the vo lume of trading is very low, and the BOM currently adjusts the official rate only once a week rather than once a day. The official exchange rate is applied to pub l ic sector imports and service payments, inc lud ing debt service, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral payment arrangements. All other transactions, inc lud ing sales of retained foreign exchange by pub l ic sector enterprises, take place through the interbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the do l lar in international markets. No. No. Banks are granted a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license from the BOM for engaging in forward exchange transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts W i th in the territory of Mongolia, all settlements, advertisements, setting of prices, and ta r i f fs must be made in togrog. n.a. There are outstanding balances under the clearing arrangement with the Russian Federation. Under inoperative bilateral trade arrangements, there are also outstanding balances w i th the People's Repub l ic of China, the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan, and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. Mongolia ma in ta ins a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Adm in i s t r a t i on of control In te rna t ional transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payment arrears O f f ic ial Restrictions are imposed on certain transactions w i th the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. There are arrears owed to the Russian Federation. Controls on trade in gold (co ins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 628 and/or bullion) MONGOLIA Controls on external trade Exporters of gold must register the ir exports w i th the BOM or a commercial bank. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Exportation of domestic banknotes is proh ib i ted. The source of the foreign currency must be documented. Domestic currency Importation of domestic banknotes is proh ib i ted. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited with retained export earn ings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and the balances may be used for any purpose w i thout restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Registration w i th the State Registry is requ ired. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for import s Import licenses and other nontar iff measures No. No. No. Negative l ist Open general licenses Imports of drugs, ma ter ia ls that encourage or depict v io lence or pornography, and i tems that could cause environmental damage are banned. Imports of h is tor ical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and non fe r rous metals , and goods and services requ i r ing licenses und er in te rna t ional contracts and agreements requ ire a special pe rm i t. Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 629 Import taxes and/or tariffs A un i fo rm 5% import duty is in effect. Specific excise taxes are levied on imports of alcohol, cigarettes, passenger cars, and petroleum products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services r equ i r ing licenses under in te rna t ional contracts and agreements requ ire a special pe rm i t. Yes. Export taxes apply to the export of nonferrous and scrap metals, raw cashmere, raw camel wool, and lumb er or other t imbe r. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Informa t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of capital ma rket securities is p roh ib i ted. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the Mongo l ian Stock Exchange is requ ired. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n . r. n .r. n .r. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of money market instruments is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 MONGOLIA On co l lec t ive inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of collective investment securities is prohibited. Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of derivatives and other ins trumen ts is prohibited. Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Registration w i th the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Registration w i th the BOM is requ ired. F in an c i al credit s By residents to nonresidents Registration w i th the MOF is requ ired. To residents from nonresidents Registration w i t h the BOM is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n .r. Inward direc t inves tment Investment by private corporations is encouraged particularly in projects invo lv ing export promotion, the use of advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign firms w i ll not be nationalized and that foreign investors w i ll have the right to dispose of the ir assets. The max imum rate of profit tax is 40%, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for three to ten years, depending on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import o r export directly or in cooperation w i th foreign trade enterprises. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Reg is tra t ion w i th the BOM and the MOF is requ ired. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G if ts, endowmen ts , inheritances, and legacies G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies invo lv ing antiques must be registered w i th the appropriate state administrative authority. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. n .r . Provisions specifi c to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Bo r row ing abroad Registration w i th the BOM is requ ired. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad BOM perm iss ion is requ ired. L end ing to non res iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks are requ ired to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Reserve requirements There is a 50% cap on the share of the reserve requirement that may be met by cash in vau l t, and on the symmetrical treatment of domestic and foreign currency deposits in meeting reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 631 Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are required to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 20% of capital, inc lud ing a subceiling of 10% for any ind iv idual currency. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities may be issued on ly by government institutions upon the approval of the Great Hural or by companies registered in Mongolia. It is prohibited to lend securities. Any person owning 5% or more of total shares of any company must report it to the Securities Committee of the Great Hural w i th in five days after acquisition. Any person who intends to own, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of total shares of any company must make a tender in accordance with the Securities Law of Mongolia. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan dirham. Commemora t ive gold coins w i th a face va lue of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemora t ive silver coins w i th a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control The exchange rate is determined freely in an interbank foreign exchange market. Bank A l- Maghr ib (BAM) —the central bank —intervenes in the market by setting the b u y i ng and selling rates applicable to its operations w i th banks based on a basket of currencies, weighted in accordance w i th the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. This quotation system is also based on the obser- vance of the cross exchange rates in the international market. For exchange operations w i th customers, banks may not exceed the rate l im i ts set by the BAM. No. No. Yes. The official forward foreign exchange cover fac i l i ty has been suspended since the creation of the foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. There is a regional payment arrangement operated by the central banks of Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office, an agency under the MOF. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Foreign Trade. International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Morocco ma in ta ins restrictions for security reasons against Iraq and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions. 632 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 633 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (co ins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num i sma t ic or inves t- ment purposes. Ten d i f fe rent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, wh ich does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to au thor iza t ion from the Customs and Ind i rect Taxes A dm i n i- stration. Each year, the MOF fixes a quota for the impor ta t ion of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are p roh ib i ted. The exportation of domes t ic banknotes is p roh ib i ted. V is i to rs to Morocco are permitted to repurchase fore ign exchange against the p resen ta t ion of exchange certificates up to the amount of the o r ig inal conversion of fo re ign exchange in to d i rham s. Res iden ts may also export fore ign banknotes fo l low ing general or special approval by the Exchange Off ice. The importation of domestic banknotes is proh ib i ted. Nonresident travelers may br ing in freely foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident trave lers may also b r i ng in foreign banknotes in any amount, as we ll as any other means of payment in fore ign exchange but must surrender them w i t h in 30 days of t h e ir return to Morocco. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Any Moroccan exporter of goods or services already ho ld ing a conver t ib le export promo- t ion account (CCPEX) is allowed to open a foreign exchange account. Those w i thout a CCPEX must receive p r ior approval from the Exchange Office. Up to 20% of fore ign exchange receipts may be credited to these accounts s imu l taneous ly, w i th the sale of the rema in ing 80% to domestic banks. There is no restriction on crediting foreign exchange accounts e i ther w i th the proceeds from f in an c i al inves tmen ts he ld in the accounts or w i th transfers from another of the ho lde r 's fo re ign exchange accounts. These accounts may be f ree ly debited for payment of business expenses, as p rov ided for in the exchange regu- la t ions, for inve s t ing in authorized in termed iary banks, for sub sc r ib ing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for cred i t ing another foreign exchange account or a CCPEX he ld in the expor ter's name, or for surrender of fore ign cu r rency to banks. Held abroad These accounts are pe rm i t ted; on ly fo re ign na t iona ls do not r e q u i re au tho r iza t ion, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Exporters of goods and services may open accounts in conve r t ib le d i r h ams at Moroccan banks, wh ich may be credited w i th the d i rham equ iva lent of 20% of repatriated fo re ign cu r rency sold to domes t ic banks. F u n ds in these accounts may be used to f inance expenses in cu r r ed abroad and related to the ho lde r 's bus iness ac t iv i ty. F i sh ing compan ies may place up to 100% of the d i rh am equ iva lent of the ir repatriated exchange receipts in these ac- counts. Exporters may choose e i ther a fo re ign exchange account or a conve r t ib le export promotion account, or may hold both kinds, provided the overall percentage of repatriated fo re ign exchange receipts placed in the accounts does not exceed the 20% l im i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 634 MOROCCO Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Two types of accounts may be opened. (1) Foreign cu r rency accounts in the names of foreign nationals may be ma in ta ined by natural or ju r id i c al persons of foreign nationality who are e i ther residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th trans- fers from abroad w i th foreign banknotes, checks, trave ler's checks, or any other means of payment denom ina te d in foreign currency and w i th foreign currency w i thd r awn from domestic banks, fo l low ing general or special authorization from the FEO. They may be debited freely for transfer abroad in favor of the account ho lder or to a fore ign th i rd party, for the surrender of foreign currency to domestic banks, and for the payment of checks denom ina ted in fore ign cu r rency. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by in- d iv idua ls of Moroccan na t iona l i ty residing abroad in the ir name. These accounts may be credited freely w i th transfers from abroad, checks or any other means of payment denominated i n foreign currency, foreign currency w i thd rawn from domestic banks fo l- low ing general or special au thor iza t ion from the FEO, the return on inves tmen ts effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or from an accoun t in conver t ib le d irhams. They may be deb i ted freely for transfers abroad, trans- fers to another account in fo re ign currency or in conver t ib le d i rham s, foreign currency subscriptions fo r notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for the surrender of fore ign currency to domestic banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These are restricted to resident or non res ident natural and j u r i d i c al persons of fore ign na- t iona l i ty and may be credited freely w i th generally or specifically authorized transfers, and w i th d i rh ams ob ta ined from the sale to banks of fore ign exchange, i n c l u d i ng bankno tes. They may be debited free ly for payments made in Morocco and for purchases of fore ign exchange a t banks. There are no restrictions on transfers between fo re ign accounts in con- vertible d irham s or on transfers of interest. Holders of these accounts may obtain interna- t ional credi t cards for settlement of all expenses in Morocco and abroad. Conve r t ib le d i r- ham account s may be opened freely in the name of Moroccans res id ing abroad. Overdraf ts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely w i th (1) d irhams from the sale of convertible currencies, in c lud ing banknotes, to domestic banks; (2) transfers au tho r ized by the FEO; (3) paymen ts of in terest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from fore ign accounts in conve r t ib le d i rh am s; and (5) transfers from term deposits in conver t ib le d irham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from domestic banks, (2) d i rham payments in Morocco, (3) transfers to foreign accounts in conver t ib le d i rhams, and (4) transfers to term deposits in conve r t ib le d i r h am accounts. These accounts may also be debited free ly, e i ther for the benef it of the account ho lder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign banknotes, trave ler's checks, or other foreign currency-denominated means of payment. Convertible d irham accounts for export- ers may be opened by exporters of goods or services w i th Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited w i th the equ iv a l ent of 20% of the fore ign currency repatriated and surren- dered to domestic banks. Balances on these accounts may be used to f inance expend i tu res contracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100% of the foreign currency repatriated. Exporters have the choice of m a i n t a i n i ng e i the r fore ign currency accounts or conver t ib le d i rham accounts. They may also ho ld both accounts s imu l taneou s ly, prov ided that the overa ll percentage of export earnings to be credited to both accounts does not exceed 20% of foreign exchange earnings. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonres ident foreigners who are no t en t i t led to guaranteed transfers. These f u n ds may be transferred w i t h in a m a x im um period of f ive years. The ho lde rs of such accounts may use the ava i lab le fund s, w i thout p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the FEO, to fund inves tmen ts in Morocco; buy treasury bonds; purchase Moroccan ma rke tab le securi- ties; settle expenses incurred in Morocco; and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide th e ir Moroccan subs id ia r ies w i th cu r rent account advances. They may also transfer free ly the balances to resident or non res ident foreigners or to Moroccan na t iona ls res id ing abroad. The benef ic iar ies of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses in- curred by foreign companies shooting f i lms in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 635 und er certai n cond i t ions; and to f inance up to 50% of an investor's participation in invest- ments in Morocco (the rema inder must be f inanced w i th funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested w i th the proceeds of conver t ib le term accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout res tr ic t io n in the event of l iqu id a t ion or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year wa i t ing per iod. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requ irements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance paymen t requirements Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports For all imports, an import certificate lodged w i th an authorized bank is requ ired to make payments related to goods and incidental costs. Imports used for the production of export goods may be f inanced directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter w i th in the framework of special l ines of credit that commercial banks are author- ized to contract w i th their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payment s abroad for imports of capital goods up to 40% of the ir f.o.b. va lue. The max imum rate for advance payments on imports of capital goods is 40% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Advance payment is l im i ted to the foreign exchange equ iva lent of DH 20,000 for imported spare parts, consumer goods, and samples with payment effected by resident ind iv idua ls or legal entities. Except for goods imported by air, in su rance po l ic ies for imports must be taken out w i th insu rance companies in Morocco. For a l im i ted group of goods, however, in su rance po l i- cies may be underwr i t ten abroad. This group includes externally funded imports if the fi- nancing terms inc lude foreign insurance; capital goods and equ ipment under tu rnkey con- tracts; or du ly authorized inves tment programs in crude oil, gas, cattle, and wood. Imports are subject to a d isembarka t ion inspection. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirement s Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive lis t Nega t ive l i st Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Morocco and Tun i s ia have signed a free trade agreement p rov id ing for the l ibe ra l iza t ion of 2,000 products and for the complete phas ing out of tariff barriers between the two countries by December 2007. E f f e c t ive March 1, 2000, the Association Agreement between the EU and Morocco became e f fec t ive and t a r i f fs on indu s t r ial goods from the EU were reduced. Imports of arms and explosives, secondhand clothing, used tires, and chemical products that deplete the ozone layer require licenses. Impor ts o f produc ts that affect pub l ic security, morale, and health may be p roh ib i t ed. Certain i tems are sub j e ct to m i n i m um impo rt prices (reference prices) for a n t i d um p i ng or sa fegua rd ing purposes . Customs du t ie s are lev ied on an ad valorem basis. Apart from agr icu l tural products, for wh ich special ta r i f fs apply, there are six tariff bands, ranging from zero to 50%, inc lud ing the 15% import levy. Tariff rates on agr icu l tural products vary w ide ly and may exceed 300% on some goods. In addition, surcharges (equivalents tarifaires) are lev ied on subsi- dized food products to attain parity w i th domestic producer prices. State import monopo ly No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ i remen t s Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters mu st s ign a guarantee to repatriate and su r render fo re ign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds co l lec ted abroad may be used d i rec t ly abroad to f inance impor ts of goods and raw ma te r ia ls of goods for export. Foreign exchange mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of the date of payment by fore ign buye rs specified in the comme rc ial contract; in p r inc ip le, th is date must not be more th an 150 days f rom the date of a r r iv al of the me rchand ise. Th is d e a d l i ne may be ex tended if ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 MOROCCO warranted by business cond i t ions and approved by the FEO. Res iden ts of Moroccan na t ion- ality, i n c l u d i ng i n d i v i d u a ls and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accru ing from all the ir noncommercial c la ims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommerc ial receipts on ly if the receipts resu lt from th e ir ac t iv i t ies in Morocco. Exporters are au thor ized to obtain up to 20% of export ea rn ings in convertible d irham or foreign exchange accounts. No. Yes. Morocco and Tun is ia have signed a free trade agreement, p rov id ing for the l ibera l iza t ion of 2,000 products and for the complete phas ing out of ta r i ff barriers between the two countries by December 2007. Exports of flour, charcoal, certain animals, plants, archaeological items, and chemical products that deplete the ozone layer are subject to authorization. A 1% qua l i ty control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. F in an c ing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses inc iden tal to com- mercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents and for travel and study abroad w i thout authorization from the FEO. Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in d i rhams the expenses incurred by the ir foreign managers and non res ident fore ign- ers wo rk ing for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreign a i r l ines operating in Morocco may transfer, w i thout prior authorization from the FEO, any surp lus revenue from the pro- ceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers w i th respect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. Transfers by deep-sea f i sh ing companies for techn ical insurance and boat management costs are l ibe ra l ized. There are no res tr ic t ions on the payment of un lo ad ing and storage costs and adm in i s t ra t ive expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments There are no restrictions on the payment of profits and dividends. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts and bona f ide tests on the transfer of interest. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The max imum allowance for tourist travel is DH 10,000 a person a year. This allowance may be increased by DH 3,000 for a m inor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad upon their return to the ir home country, pro- vided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remittances w i th in the previous 12 months up to a l im it of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted the foreign exchange equivalent of all their savings from income. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed w i thout restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts maintained w i th Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the FEO on the basis of need, w i th a da i ly l im it of DH 2,000. Banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to sma ll and med ium-s ized enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by i n d i v i d u a ls not be long ing to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel al- lowances cannot be added to allowances for tour ist trave l. The FEO grants exemp t ions as needed. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits MOROCCO 637 Transfers for fam i ly maintenance and alimony payments are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by pub l ic and private agencies in favor of retirees residing abroad pe rmanen t ly. For medical costs, approval by the M in is try of Health is requ ired. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to Moroccan nationals who must travel abroad for medical treatment up to a m a x im um allowance of the equ iva lent of DH 30,000, and to make transfers on pa t ien ts' behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions concerned. School fees to foreign academic ins t i tu t ions, upon submission of documentary evidence, may be transferred without l im i t; however, the fo l low ing l im i ts apply: (1) an annual installation allowance equ iva lent to DH 20,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a m inor student leav ing Morocco for the f i rst time; and (2) an allowance for l i v i ng expenses amoun t ing to the equ iva lent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 a month for scholarship holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a lease and a certificate of residence or any other equ iva lent documen t. The l im it is DH 2,000 a month for foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of h igher education for a ch i ld studying abroad. Foreign retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans may transfer all of their income. They may also contribute freely to the ir re- t i rement or social secur i ty fund in the ir country of o r ig in. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the FEO for approval, wh ich is granted on proof of need. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreigners res id ing in Morocco and emp loyed in e i ther the p r iva te or p u b l ic sectors or en- gaged in professions in indus t ry, commerce, and ag r icu l tu re may transfer all t h e ir sav ings from income. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Other payments There are no restrictions on the payments for subscr ip t ions and membe rsh ip fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Residents of Moroccan nationality, inc lud ing ind iv idu a ls and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from a ll the ir noncomme rc ial c la ims and su r render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans work ing abroad must surrender w i th in one month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export w i thout restriction foreign banknotes obtained by deb i t ing the ir accounts in conver t ib le d irhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15% of for- eign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a l im it of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan residents l i v i ng abroad may take advantage of the same DH 10,000 tourist allocation that applies to residents. Resident travelers may b r ing in foreign banknotes in any amount, as we ll as any other means of payment in fore ign exchange but must surrender them w i t h in 30 days of th e ir return to Morocco. Exporters of services are required to obtain up to 20% of their export earnings in amounts denominated in foreign currency or convertible dirhams. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 MOROCCO Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance of capital market securities by nonresidents is prohibited. There are, however, no controls on the sale of Moroccan securities by nonresidents. Proceeds from such sales may also be transferred freely, provided that the relevant purchases are financed by foreign exchange inf lows or any comparable means. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Moroccan nationality and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Residents of foreign nationality are free to purchase securities abroad or, generally speaking, to consti- tute assets abroad, provided that these purchases are financed from their foreign exchange holdings or holdings of convertible dirhams. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents When the purchase of such ins t rumen ts or securities is financed by a foreign exchange i n f l ow or by the proceeds of the sale of other securities prev ious ly purchased through the su r render of fore ign exchange, the transfer of d is inves tment proceeds, i n c l u d i ng capital gains, and of income generated by such investment is free. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of these in s t rumen ts by nonresidents is prohibited. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the prior authorization of the FEO, which is granted under certain condi- tions. On the other hand, residents of foreign nationality are free to engage in operations abroad financed with the ir foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for money market instruments. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These in s t rum en ts have not been developed in Morocco. Purchase abroad by residents Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty may subscribe to such instruments abroad only w i th the pr ior approval of the FEO. Authorized intermediaries are allowed to engage in foreign ex- change buy ing and se l l ing operations w i th foreign banks using foreign currency cash. Sale or issue abroad by residents The issue abroad of these ins trumen ts by Moroccan residents is subject to prior authoriza- tion by the FEO. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Merchand ise exporters are free to grant commerc ial credits to nonresidents for up to 150 days; longer terms may be granted w i th the approval of the FEO, as requ i red for bus iness purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 639 F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents The granting of financial loans by residents to nonresidents is subject to the approval of the FEO. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits are limited to foreign loans for financing investment operations or fo re ign trade. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Moroccan banks may issue or accept in favor of residents sureties issued on behalf of non- residents in support of the participation of said nonresidents in pub l ic or private contract- ing, the supp ly ing of goods or services, the refund of down payments, and the substitution of guarantee withholdings. Similarly, they may issue sureties on behalf of nonresidents in support of tax l iab i l i t ies or financial obligations. A counterguarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of nonresidents. When claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. To residents from nonresidents Provisions of guarantees are allowed on the condition that they are contracted through resident Moroccan banks. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to prior approval of the FEO, but residents of fo re ign nationality are free to invest abroad. There are no controls on transfers made directly with the banking system of the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion or sale of foreign investment, inc lud ing capital gains. For the l iqu ida t ion of any inves tment not fa l l ing under the convertibility arrangements, the relevant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit account denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be transferred over a five-year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions These operations are subject to the investment regime. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign nationals may not purchase properties outside urban limits. Controls on personal capital movements Loans These operations are subject to FEO authorization. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrow ing abroad G i f ts and endowments are subject to prior FEO authorization. However, inheritance transfers may be effected freely if the acquisition of the inherited property is financed w i th fo re ign exchange. These operations are subject to FEO authorization. Yes. Yes. Commerc ial banks may on ly borrow abroad to finance fore ign trade or investment opera t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 640 MOROCCO Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The granting of loans abroad by Moroccan banks is subject to approval by the Exchange Office. However, banks may use cash held in foreign exchange accounts (by foreign na- tionals, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) for g ran t ing buyers' credits to foreign, nonresident customers of Moroccan exporters. Moroccan banks may grant foreign exchange loans to residents for the f inanc ing of foreign trade operations and investment, w i th in the l im i ts of their respective foreign exchange posi- tions, as authorized by the rules of the foreign exchange market. Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Reserve requirements Convertible dirham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken into account for the calculation of l i q u id asset requirements. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted in foreign exchange accounts. These operations are subject to authorization by the FEO and the monetary authorities. In banks by nonresidents These operations are subject to authorization by the monetary authorities. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign exchange position l im it for each currency is 10% of net capital and 20% in aggregate for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities The same regu la t ions apply as for nonres ident assets and l iab i l i t ies. On nonresident assets and liabilities The assets and l iab i l i t ies of these accounts are inc luded in the ca lcu la t ion of bank fo re ign exchange positions. Provisions specifi c to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Prior approval by the FEO is required for portfolio investment abroad, Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Imports and import payments March 1. The Association Agreement between the EU and Morocco became effective and tariffs on indus t r ial goods from the EU were reduced. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mozambique is the Mozambican metical. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external va lue of the metical is determined by supply and demand in the exchange market, where the Bank of Mozambique (BM), the commercial banks, and foreign ex- change bureaus participate. There is an interbank money market and an interdealer market in foreign exchange outside the f ix ing sessions. The foreign exchange market is cleared twice daily through telex and telephone transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control Yes. n.a. No. The BM is responsible for foreign exchange policy and administers its control. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. n.a. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as jewelry or ornaments. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is governed by special regulations, wh i le the same regu la t ions that apply to other import items are applicable to the importation of nonmonetary gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $5,000 and above that, up to the amount they declared on entry. 641 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 On imports Domestic currency MOZAMBIQUE Imports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000, provided they have been prev ious ly exported. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Jur id ical persons must report the opening of such accounts to the BM. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened with funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from employment and technical assistance contracts approved by the appropriate institutions; transfers of such funds abroad are permitted once the origin of the funds has been proven. Conver t ib le into foreign currency This is permitted for funds whose origin has been proven. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentary proof of the arrival of goods has to be presented. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspections are performed randomly, depend ing on the type of merchandise. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list A s ing le-document import procedure is requ i red. A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' or creditors' fund s. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Pro- grams and other agencies review import requests. Some import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. Open general licenses A single-document import procedure is in effect. Import taxes and/or tariffs A variable import surcharge is in effect on sugar. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 643 Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds, except in cases authorized by the BM, must be collected through the commercial banks. No. No. Yes. Yes. A single-document export procedure is requ ired. Quotas are ma in ta ined on exports of sugar to the Un i ted States. On January 1, 2000, the export duty on raw cashew nuts was raised to 18% from 14%. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Exchange bureaus are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 to ind iv idua ls to pay expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for f i lm rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to publications. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 for the payment of all types of inv is ib le transactions and current transfers, except for profits and d iv idends from investments. Op- erations exceeding the l im i ts and those relating to profits and d iv idends are subject to pr ior approval of the BM. Yes. Remittances of profits and d iv idends from foreign direct inves tment may be made in accordance w i th the specific project au thor iza t ion. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign experts wo rk ing in Mozamb ique may rem it abroad all or part of the ir salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 644 MOZAMBIQUE Surrender requ iremen ts Certain Mozambican nationals work ing abroad under o f f ic ia l ly arranged contracts (specifi- cally, m ine rs in South Afr ica) are obliged to rem it 60% of the ir earnings through the BM and to convert them in to meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There are controls on all capital and money market transactions. There are controls on all derivative transactions. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Public and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on con- cessional terms. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment Pub l ic and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on con- cessional terms. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate their in i t ial capital. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Inves tment Promotion Center. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing real estate and may enter only contracts for leasing and concessions. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These are controls on all personal capital movements. Earnings from gambling are fu l ly transferable, provided they are confirmed by the casinos, in accordance with a special permanent authorization granted to the casinos by the BM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 645 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No pr ior approval is required, but the borrow ing must be registered at the BM. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Effec t ive March 16, 2000, the reserve requ irement on foreign exchange accounts was raised to 7.95% from 6.8%. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set in percent of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Prior BM approval is required. Prior BM approval is required. Prior BM approval is required. Yes. n.r. Changes During 2000 Exports and export proceeds January 1. The export duty on raw cashew nu ts was raised to 18% from 14%. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 16. The reserve requ i rement for foreign exchange accounts was raised to 7.95% from 6.8%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar kyat. In addition to the official exchange rate, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar (CBM) in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 un i ts and are exchangeable with six hard currencies or w i th acceptable traveler's checks. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs are available for kyats at the market-determined rate at the exchange centers in Yangon. Seven exchange centers operate in Yangon and in 19 other cities. Holders of FECs may deposit them into the ir foreign exchange accounts. An unofficial parallel market for foreign exchange also exists. The kyat is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies mar- gins of 2% to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buy ing and selling rates of the kyat for the euro, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanmar Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB), are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the ACU (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, Indian rupee, Iranian rial, Nepalese rupee, Pakistan rupee, and Sri Lanka rupee). The buy ing and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, Malaysian ringgit, and Singapore dollar are deter- mined daily on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and the buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the appropriate cross rates pub- lished in The Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in AMUs through the ACU mechanism. Effective November 11, 2000, the requirement that border trade be conducted only in dollars was relaxed; the use of local and other currencies, other than the dollar, among bilateral trading partners is not allowed. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 646 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 647 Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payment arrangement s Regional arrangements C lea r ing agreements Myanmar i s a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts B i la tera l trade arrangemen ts w i th ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies exist. These arrangements do not p rov ide fo r the extension of credit. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control is administered by the CBM in accordance w i th ins truc t ions from the M in is try o f Finance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deput y P r ime M in i s ter allocates fore ign exchange for the p u b l ic sector. In terna t ional securit y restrictions No. Payment arrear s Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears are maintained w i th respect to debt-service payments of the central governmen t. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the pr iva te sector. Jewe l ry for personal use may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of a r r iva l. Personal jewelry of a prescribed value may be taken out, subject to approval by the control- ler of fore ign exchange and the cond i t ion that the jewe l ry be brought back in to the coun try. No cond i t ions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewe lry that was de- clared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Gold b u l l i on may not be imported from an y source. The exportation of Myanmar currency is p roh ib i ted. Residents, other than government off ic ia ls, who have been granted an o f f ic ial pe rm it to travel abroad are allowed to buy the equivalent of $100-$200 from the MFTB and the Myanmar Inves tmen t and Commerc ial Bank on presentation of FECs from th e ir own for- eign currency accounts. Government o f f ic ia ls are allowed to take out $500 when t r av e l ing abroad. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar w i t h in six months of arr iv ing may take out any balance o f fore ign currency they b rought in w i th them and may also reconvert the rema in- ing balance of the FECs purchased in excess of the m i n im um requ i red purchase of $300 (on J u l y 24, 2000, this amount was reduced to $200). The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Travelers may bring in up to $2,000 or its equivalent without any declaration. Tourists a r r iv ing i n Myanmar are requ i red to purchase FECs equ iva lent to a m i n im um v a l ue of $300, reduced to $200 on Ju ly 24, 2000, but amoun ts in excess of th is m i n i m um may be reconverted into foreign exchange on departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Fore ign cu r rency accounts of na t ional f i rms may be kept w i th p r iva te domestic banks per- mitted to conduct fo re ign exchange transactions. Accounts may be opened in U.S. do l la rs on ly b y Myanmar na t iona ls who earn fore ign exchange. Account ho lders are a l lowed to impo rt und e r import licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of LCs or on a co l lec t ion basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency MYANMAR With prio r approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for fam i ly visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examina- tion fees for their children, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of funds between accounts are permitted. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Yes. n.a. Conversion is permitted on ly for payment of off ic ial expenses. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of diplomatic missions and international organizations and the ir home-based personnel may be kept with the MFTB only. For other nonresidents, pr ior approval is required. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but all debits and credits require prior authorization. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Imports and Import Payments An impor t program for the pub l ic sector is prepared annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up jo in t ly by the Ministry of National P lann ing and Econom ic Development and the MFR. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through private do- mestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange business. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the MFTB, w i th in the approved foreign exchange budget, after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds of border exports. Myanmar na t iona ls who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make un l im i ted payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under officia l permits who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts may make pay- ments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Advance paymen t requirements A 100% advance payment is required. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports from countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations are prohibited. The State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) under the d ifferent minis- tries are authorized to engage in the ir own external trade, but must apply for an export/im- port license from the MOC. Private importers also need to obtain licenses and they are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 649 required to import 80% priority items A and 20% priority items B. Generally, no quota or ce i l ing is fixed for imports. Some restrictions apply to the imports of some commod i t ies, ma in ly foodstuffs. Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, p lay ing cards, and gold and s i lver bu l l ion, may not be imported from any source. OGLs are issued on a case-by-case basis. Tariff rates range from zero to 40%. Ag r icu l tu ral imp lemen ts, raw ma ter ia ls, and other essential imports are taxed at low rates, wh i le the highest rates are applied to imports of luxury goods. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be f u l ly repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes No. No. Yes. Yes. Export trade may be conducted w i th any country without restriction, except those under UN embargo or w i th wh ich Myanmar has severed d ip loma t ic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consump t ion. Special perm i ts are requ ired for exports of antiques. State enterprises have a monopoly on the exportation of rice, teak, pe tro leum, natural gas, pearls, jade, and other precious stones and metals. Rice is exported by the Myanmar Ag r icu l tu ral Produce Trading. Local en trepreneurs invo lved in the land reclama- tion projects have been granted permission to export 50% of the rice they produce. Private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export some beans and pulses, rattan, f lou r, and cut flowers under valid export permits issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain products, inc lud ing rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Other than goods on the exception list, commercial taxes of 8% are levied on all exports except those paid for in kyats. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval All paymen ts for inv i s ib l es outside the p u b l ic sector are subject to approval and are consid- ered on a case-by-case basis. Effec t ive A p r il 1, 2000, the m ax imum amount that may be remitted against FECs was reduced to $20,000 a month from $30,000. On August 1, 2000, th is amount was fu r ther decreased to $10,000 a mon th. Prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange is requ ired for remittances of insurance p rem iums. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the amortization of loans or the depreciation of d i rect investments. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 MYANMAR Quantitative limits Personal paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other paymen ts Prior approval Yes. Yes. Rem i t tances to retired government employees are permitted on ly if the persons concerned were not Myanmar na t iona ls th roughout the ir term of service and are now res id ing in the ir na t ive countries. F am i ly remittances are permitted only for foreign techn ic ians employed under contract by the government or by the private firms established under the Foreign Inve s tment Law. The l im it is one-half of the net salary if the spouse is l i v i ng abroad, and one- th ird of the net salary if the spouse is l i v i ng in Myanmar. Balances of salary and l aw f ul earned income that rema in after payment of taxes and deduc- t ion of l i v i ng expenses of the worker and his or her fam i ly may be transferred abroad th rough a bank w i th the approval of the CBM. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Su r render requ i remen ts Unless exchange control authorities grant a special waiver, 10% of proceeds mu st be paid as income tax. Myanmar nationals wo rk ing abroad w i th permission from the gove rnment are requ ired to pay an income tax at the rate of 10% of the ir gross earnings in fore ign ex- change. Myanmar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar nationals working abroad under the ir own arrangements must pay as income tax 10% of the ir gross earnings. Myanmar na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay income tax. Restr ict ions on use of funds Use of funds is subject to exchange control approval. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal transact ions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other in s trumen ts Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment The Myanmar Inve s tment Comm iss ion may accept proposals for inves tment from fore ign- ers for f u ll owne r sh ip and und er j o i nt ven tu re, w i th the share of foreign capital representing at least 35% of the total cap i ta l. To fac i l i ta te and promote fore ign inves tmen t, the comm is- sion may grant exemp t ion from customs du t ies and other in t e rn al taxes on mach ine ry and equ ipment imported du r ing construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 651 raw materials imported for the first three years of commercial production, as we ll as ex- emption from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years, inc lud ing the year when production of goods and services began, or for longer than three years, depend- ing upon the prof i tab i l i ty of the enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation a l low- ances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign invest- ment are specified in a detailed pos i t ive list. The governmen t guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a perm it w i ll not be na t iona l ized du r ing the term of the contract or du r ing an extended term. Repatriation of capital and profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed fund s. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors but may be leased from the state. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks an d other credit in s t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad State approval is requ i red. Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts July 24. The amount that each foreign tourist was required to convert into FECs was reduced to $200 from $300. Payments fo r inv i s ib le transactions and curren t transfers April 1. The m ax imum amount that may be remitted against FECs was reduced to $20,000 a month from $30,000 a month. November 11. The requ irement that border trade be conducted on ly in do l lars was relaxed. August 1. The m a x im um amount that may be remitted against FECs was fu r th er reduced to $10,000 a month from $20,000 a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VII I Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Nam ib ia is the Namibia dollar. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Namibia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange market in Namibia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Africa. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, i n c l u d i ng for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and non- trade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the out- standing commitment s and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresidents, subject to certain limitations. Gold m i n i ng companies and houses may sell forward an t ic i- pated receipts of the ir fu tu re gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. do l lars on ly and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a t ime in the form of swap transactions invo lv ing Nam ib ia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on the interest rate differential between the two currencies. O f f ic ial cove r of forward operations Special forward cover at p re fe ren t ial rates is provided in respect of import f in an c ing. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts If a par t icu lar type of payment is not covered in the Exchange Control Ru l ing s, an ap- p l ica t ion is lodged w i th the Bank of N am i b ia (BON). Each application is considered on its own merit. n.a. n.a. N am ib ia is part of the CMA, and no restrictions are applied to payments w i t h in the CMA. The BON has delegated some powers to authorized dealers who assist the BON in adminis- tering exchange control. Where an authorized dealer cannot approve a transaction in terms of the Exchange Control Rulings, an application is lodged with the BON. The norms ap- plied by the BON in scrutinizing applications are subject to policy gu ide l ines established w i th in th e CMA. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 652 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 653 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The exchange control regu la t ions p roh ib it the purchase and sale, both domestically and abroad, of unwrought gold by Nam ib ian residents without the specific authority of the BON. All such requests are considered on mer i t. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins w i t h in the CM A for num i sma t ic an d inves tment purposes on ly. Controls on external trade All exports and imports of gold requ i re the pr ior approval of the monetary au tho r i ty. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency An i n d i v i d u al may export up to N$5,000. Residents and contract workers depar t ing from Nam ib ia to destinations ou ts ide the CMA may take out the ir travel allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign v is i tors leav ing N am i b ia may take w i th them the unspent portion of the proceeds of foreign currency imported and exchanged in Nam ib ia. Upon entr y from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonres iden ts may b r ing in a total of N$5,000 in N am i b ia banknotes or R 5,000 in South Afr ican banknotes. There are no l im i ta t ion s on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaz i land. Importation of foreign currency by nonresidents of the CMA is unrestricted. However, Namibian residents are only allowed to import into Namibia the residual balance of foreign currency in i t i a l ly exported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Resident pr iva t e i n d i v i d u a ls are allowed to ho ld foreign currency accounts w i th local authorized dealers . For amounts at or exceeding N$50,000, forms A and E must be completed for sales and purchases of foreign exchange. The amount of N$750,000 allowed fo r inves tment by resident private i n d i v i d u a ls may also be he ld in a domestic fo re ign exchang e account. Yes. Approval is based on the mer it of the application. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, private ind i- v idua ls may invest up to N$750,000 (prev ious ly, N$500,000) and may also retain abroad income earned overseas. No prior approval is required for these transactions. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le int o foreign currency Payments in fore ign currency may be effected from resident accounts, prov ided the transaction i s covered und er the Exchange Control Ru l ings or where p r ior approval has been obtained . Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Only foreign currency accounts of export-processing zone (EPZ) customers are allowed. These accounts are kept offshore via a local authorized dealer and are set up to fac i l i ta te the fore ign currency disbursements of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must conform to normal bank ing practices and must be carried out w i th the f u ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. For other residents, p r ior approval is requ i red. The regulation s that apply to these accounts in South A f r ica also apply in N am ib i a. EPZ nonres ident account s are allowed. These are N am ib ia do l lar accounts funded w i th fore ign currency that are used for the normal operational requirements and expenditures of EPZ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 654 NAMIBIA enterprises and to fac i l i ta te local investments. Balances rema in ing in these accounts are freely convertible and transferable abroad. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Residents who emigrated from Nam ib ia on or before Apr il 1, 1998, may be allowed, upon app l ica t ion to the BON, to transfer the ir blocked funds abroad. The accounts of residents who emigrated after that date are subject to normal em igra t ion procedures. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F in an c ing requ irements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payment for the importation of capital goods is allowed upon f i l i ng an app l ica t ion w i th the BON. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, authorized dealers may approve 33.3% of the ex- factory cost of capital goods as we ll as "cash-with-order" advance payments of up to N$50,000 per transaction for perm iss ib le imports other than capital goods. Documen ta t ion con f i rm ing receipt of the imported articles into Nam ib ia (e.g., a b i ll of en- try or local post receipts) is required. Letters of credit LCs may be established locally by authorized dealers. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on imports o r ig ina t ing in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are u sua l ly licensed in conform i ty w i th South A f r ica 's import regulations. Permits are va l id for one year for imports from any country outside the SACU and are expressed in va lue terms. At present, about 90% of imports requ i re a perm i t. N am ib ia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs du t ies or qu an t i t a t ive restrictions) from countries outside the SACU and, under certain conditions, from countries w i t h in the SACU. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system A general sales tax of 10% is levied on all imports in add i t ion to a sales du ty between zero and 15%, depending on the type of commod i ty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are no rma l ly required to be repatriated w i t h in 30 days of accrual. Surrender requ iremen ts Effec t ive August 18, 2000, exporters were allowed to retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in a Customer Foreign Currency (CFC) account w i th authorized dealers. F inan c ing requirements No. Documentat ion requirements All exports from Nam ib ia over the amount of N$50,000 must be accompanied by an export declaration, and, upon receipt of export proceeds locally, the in f low of fore ign currency must be declared. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. All exports, except to SACU member countries, requ i re a license. Permits are required for exports of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 655 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized dealers may approve trade-related inv i s ib le payments w i thout l im i ta t ion and other i n v i s i b le paymen ts up to established l im i t s. Larger amoun ts may be granted on pres- en ta t ion of documen tary proof of need. V i r t u a l ly all r em a i n i ng con tro ls on cu r rent account transac t ions have been l ibe ra l ized, except in cases whe re l im i ts were retained to m ax im i ze the effectiveness of rema in ing controls on capital outflows. No p r ior approval is requ i red, but if a local company is con trac t ing any loans via a local source, an app l ica t ion shou ld be f i led w i th the BON. The repayment of fo re ign loans re- qu ires BON approval. Res iden ts may ob ta in up to N$ 120,000 for a person 12 years or o lder and N$35,000 for a c h i ld und er the age of 12 years each ca lendar year. E f fec t ive A p r il 6, 2000, these l im i ts were increased to N$ 130,000 and N$40,000, respec t ive ly. Res iden ts t r a v e l i ng to des t ina- t ions ou ts ide the CMA are a l lowed to take out the fo re ign exchange that was made av a i l- able to them in any fo rm. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amoun ts in excess of the ind i c a t ive l im i ts are approved when the app l icant p rov ides documen ts in support of a bona f ide request. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no res t r ic t ions on paymen ts of med ical costs and a l imony (the latter are sub ject to presentation of a court order). As regards transfer of pensions, applications are considered on the merits of the pa r t icu lar case. The annual a l lowance for study abroad is N$ 120,000 for a s ing le s tudent or N$240,000 for a s tudent accompanied by a non s tudent spouse. F am i ly ma in tenance transfers are l im i t ed to N$4,000 a mon th for a recipient fam i ly. Effective Ap r il 6, 2000, these l im i ts were raised to N$ 130,000, N$260,000, and N$6,000, respec t ive ly. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amoun ts in excess of the ind i c a t ive l im i ts for payment of study abroad are approved when app l ican ts p rov ide documen ts in support of a bona f ide request. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Contract workers may t ran s fer two - th i rds of t h e ir m o n t h ly salary. No p r ior approval is requ i red for t ravel expenses. L im i ts mu st be in accordance w i th prescr ibed t ravel allowances. E f fec t ive A p r il 6, 2000, au thor ized dealers may pe rm it up to N$20,000 a transaction for pe rm i s s ib le impo r ts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other paymen ts Prior approval App l ica t ions are considered on the me r i ts of the pa r t icu lar case. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Surrender requ i remen ts N am i b i an p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls may re ta in income earned abroad from any source o ther th an me rchand i se exports. Proceeds from i n v i s i b l es mu st be su r rende red w i t h in 30 days of the date of accrua l, un l e ss exemption is au thor ized. Restr ict ions on use of funds P r ior BON approval shou ld be ob ta ined to use such f u n ds ou ts ide the CMA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 656 NAMIBIA Capital Transactions E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, the inves tment l im it for p r iva te residents abroad is N$750,000 (previously N$500,000). Inwa rd transfers of cap i tal from non-CMA coun t r ies for equ i ty inve s tment are f ree ly per- m i t ted, whereas app l ica t ions by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, coun t r ies outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of ex is t ing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on th e ir own merits. N am i b i an corporations are allowed to invest subs tan t ial amoun ts in the SADC member coun tr ies, and dual l i s t ing of companies on both the N am i b ia Stock Ex- change and other SADC stock exchanges is permitted. Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Controls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquo ted CMA securities, real estate, and o ther equ i ty inves tmen ts by nonres iden ts are freely transferab le. Purchase abroad by residents E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, these transactions are pe rm i t ted w i t h in the N$750,000 fo re ign inves tment l im it of resident ind iv idua l s. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents The same res tr ic t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents The same res tr ic t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On co l lec t ive inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions are pe rm i t ted w i t h in the N$750,000 foreign inves tment l im it of res ident i n d i v i d u a l s. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Yes. Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits Interest rates app l icab le on fore ign currency-denominated loans shou ld not exceed the LIBOR p lus 2%, wh i le those on local currency-denominated loans should not exceed the p r ime overdraft rate p lus 3%. Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to the specific approval of the BON, w h i ch is generally g iven for borrow ing abroad w i th a ma tu r i ty of at least six mon ths by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowings or consumer credit. Au tho r ized dea lers are genera l ly permitted to raise f u n ds abroad in the ir own names for the f in an c ing of Na- m ib i a 's fore ign trade and other approved purposes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. F inanc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents A w h o l ly non res iden t -owned company may borrow 100% of shareho lder equ i ty loca l ly. O n ly compan ies that are 75% or more fore ign owned are subject to exchange controls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NAMIBIA 657 Foreign loans to Nam ib ian residents require prior approval, wh ich is usually granted when the repayment and serv ic ing of loans do not d i s rupt the balance of payments, and the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of p r ev a i l ing in te rna t ional rates. Compan ies are allowed to borrow abroad us ing the ir local balance sheet as a guarantee where the inve s t- ment required exceeds the l im it of N$50 m i l l ion or, in the case of investments in SADC member countries, N$250 m i l l ion. Yes. Yes. App l ica t ions by residents to retain f u n ds in, or t rans fer t,hem to, coun t r ies ou t s ide the CMA for bona f ide long-term inves tmen ts in specific deve lopment projects or for the expans ion of ex is t ing projects owned or con tro l led by residents are considered on t h e ir own me r i t s. The l im it on fore ign inves tment is N$50 m i l l i on in coun tr ies other than SADC members, and a fac i l i ty of N$250 m i l l i on for inves tmen ts in SADC member coun t r ies was estab- lished. Consideration is to be g iven to foreign borrow ings to f inance these inv e s tm en ts w i th recourse to, or guarantee from, Nam ib ia, im p l y i ng that the local corporations' balance sheet may be used in negotiating such a fac i l i ty. Approved foreign subs id iar ies may expand ac- t iv i t ies abroad w i thout pr ior approval, provided such expansion is f inanced by fore ign bor- rowings or by profits earned by the fo re ign subsidiary. Nam ib ian pr iva te i n d i v i d u a ls over 18 years of age may invest abroad or place in a domestic foreign currency account up to N$750,000, subject to the produc t ion of a Tax Clearance Certificate from the Nam ib ia Inland Revenue. The inves tment may be in any fo rm. Income earned abroad and capital in troduced in to N am ib ia on or after J u ly 1, 1997, by p r iv a te i n d i- v idu a ls resident in N am ib ia may be retransferred abroad, p rov ided that the income and/or capital had prev ious ly been converted into N am ib ia dollars. The BON is now cons ider ing app l ica t ions by private i n d i v i d u a ls to inve st in f ixed property, e.g., ho l iday homes and farms, in the SADC member coun tr ies. Inward direct investment Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are free. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans Such purchases are pe rm i t ted w i t h in the N$750,000 fo re ign inves tment l im i t. O ther purchases are subject to exchange control approva l. By residents to nonresidents Residents requ i re p r ior approval. To residents from nonresidents Residents requ i re p r ior approval. However, au thor ized dealers may a l low the transfer of loans w i t h in a l im it of N$20,000 an app l icant annu a l ly. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from such estates due to non res iden ts may be rem i t ted up to N$500,000. Sums due in excess of th is am o u nt r equ i re p r ior BON approva l. Residents must declare funds obtained and repatriate them to Nam ib ia. A l t e rn a t iv e ly, an exemp t ion may be obtained from the BON for the retention of such f u n ds abroad. Each app l ica t ion is considered on its own merits. Effec t ive Ap r il 6, 2000, monetary g i f ts of N$20,000 or less an app l icant may be a l lowed a n n u a l l y. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 NAMIBIA Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants If the imm ig ran ts have fo rm a l ly declared the ir assets and l i ab i l i t i es and have no cash resources ava i lab l e w i th wh ich to pay the debt, the BON may consider requests for exemp t ion based on m e r i t. Em igran ts are allowed to export any household and personal effects for an em igra t ing f am i ly un it or single person w i th in the overall insured va lue of N$l m i l l i o n. Fam i l ies em ig ra t in g ou ts ide the CMA are granted the normal tour ist a l lowance and are perm i t ted to rem it up to N$400,000 (N$200,000 for single persons). Any balance exceeding th is l im it must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. The balance, in c lud ing earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. Imm ig ran ts ar e requ ired to f u r n i sh the exchange control authorities w i th a complete ac- count o f th e ir foreign assets and l iab i l i t ies at the t ime of the ir arr iva l. Any foreign assets they transfe r to N am i b ia may, th rough the same channel, be retransferred abroad. Transfer of gamb l ing and p r ize earnings No rm a l ly, N am ib i ans are discouraged from pa r t ic ipa t ing in in te rna t ional lotteries. Most requests in th is regard are dec l ined. Prov is ions spec if i c to commerc ial banks an d other credit in s t i tu t ions Bo r row ing abroad L end ing to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Au thor ized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in the ir own names for the f inanc ing of N am i b i a 's fore ign trade and for other approved purposes. Prior approval is needed for lend ing not related to trade transactions. Only companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls, and permission is g iven for local f inanc ial assistance to be granted to nonresident-owned companies against a non- res ident guarantee, provided the amount made ava i lab le does not exceed the l im it calcu- lated in terms of the fo rmu la requ iremen ts. L end ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Au tho r ized dealers may lend money loca l ly in N am i b ia do l lars. D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ia l trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks As long as these deposits are l i a b i l i t i es to the p u b l ic ar is ing from operations in N am i b i a, they w i ll be inc luded in the basis for ca lcu la t ing the m i n im um l iqu id assets and reserve requ i remen ts. The l im it for credit facilities to any person or group of related persons is 30% of a banking in s t i tu t ion 's capital funds. In add i t ion to the above l im i t, granted credit fac i l i t ies more than 10% of capital f u n ds may not exceed, in aggregate, 800% of the total capital funds of the b ank ing in s t i tu t io n in Nam ib ia. These l im i ts apply to all customers irrespective of the ir c i t izensh ip. As long as these deposits are l i ab i l i t i es to the pub l ic, arising from operations in N am ib i a, they w i l l be inc luded in the basis for ca lcu la t ing the m i n im um l iqu id assets and reserve requ i remen ts. The same regu la t ions app ly as for deposit accounts in foreign exchange. Bank ing ins t i tu t ions are at all times requ ired to ma in ta in m i n im um local assets situated in N am ib ia o f an aggregate va lue of not less than 100% of the amount of th e ir l i a b i l i t i es pay- able in Nam ib ia do l lars (exc lud ing capital funds ), less any deb it balances denom ina ted in South A f r ican rand in the clearing account held w i th the ir associate banks in South A f r ica. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There is no d is t inc t ion between residents and nonresidents. The net open position l im it is 15% of a bank 's share capital and un impa i red reserves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors N am i b i a n pens ion f u n ds and insurance compan ies are obliged by law to invest 35% of the ir tota l assets loca l ly. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts The m ax imum is 65% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io he ld abroad L im i t s (m in .) on inves tment po r t fo l io he ld locally NAMIBIA 659 W i th BON approval, q u a l i f y i ng ins t i tu t ions (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and fund managers) may invest up to 15% of total assets; the l im it for investments made by u n it trusts through u n it trust management companies is 20% of total assets. These inves tmen ts are subject to the overall limits of 10% and 20% of their total assets, respectively, and are to be made by way of asset swaps. The fore ign currency transfers allowed are 10% of the total va lue of the local f u n d. Trans- fers abroad of up to 3% of the net in f low of funds du r ing the preceding year may be al- lowed. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2000, 10% (prev ious ly 2%) of the net in f low of funds in the previous year may be invested on the stock exchanges of SADC member countries. The d e f in i t ion of in s t i tu t ional investor inc ludes the u n it trust management company itself. In th e past, it i n c l u d ed on ly the f u n d. The m i n im um is 35% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Imports an d import paymen ts January 1. Au tho r ized dealers were a l lowed to approve 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods and "cash-with-order" advance paymen ts of up to N$50,000 per transaction for pe rm iss ib l e imports other than capital goods. Exports and export proceeds August 18, Exporters were allowed to retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in a CFC account w i th authorized dealers. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers April 6. Au thor ized dealers were allowed to pe rm it up to N$20,000 a transaction for per- m i s s ib le imports paid w i th credit card. April 6. The annual allowance for study abroad was raised to N$l30,000 for a single student or N$260,000 for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse (previously N$ 120,000 and N$240,000, respectively) and the l im it for fam i ly maintenance transfers was raised to N$6,000 from N$4,000 a mon th for a recipient fam i ly un i t. April 6. The l im i ts for payments for travel were raised to N$l 30,000 for a person 12 years or older and N$40,000 for a ch i ld under the age of 12 years each calendar year (p rev ious ly N$ 120,000 and N$35,000, respectively). Cap ital transact ions January 1. The inve s tment l i m it for p r iva te residents was raised to N$750,000 from N$500,000. Controls on personal capital movements April 6. Residents were allowed to receive monetary gifts of up to N$20,000 a year from nonres iden ts. P rov is ions specific to i n s t i t u t i o n al in- vestors January 1. Ten percent (p rev ious ly, 2%) of the net inf low of funds in the previous year was a l lowed to be invested on the stock exchanges of SADC member countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Nepalese rupee has been pegged to the Indian rupee at the rate of NRe 1.6 per Re 1 since February 1993.The reference rate of the dollar quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) is based on the average of the quoted rate of commercial banks. Exchange rates of other major currencies are quoted on the basis of overseas markets. Buy ing and se l l ing rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, with quotations based on the buy ing and sell- ing rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepa l. All current transactions w i th member countries of the ACU other than Ind ia must be ef- fected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from Ind ia may be settled in dol- lars. Other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. n.a. n.a. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Yes. Payments in convertible currencies may be made w i thout permission, subject to the proce- dures prescribed by the NRB. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for the ir services to foreign nationals. n.a. No. Persons who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an off ic ial source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. 660 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted NEPAL 661 Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents w i thout permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they bring in. Yes. Residents and nonres iden ts may b r ing in foreign banknotes freely, but must declare amounts exceeding the equivalent of $2,000. No l im it applies to Indian rupees. Resident Accounts Exporters are allowed to deposit up to 100% of export earnings in a foreign exchange ac- count to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from wo rk ing abroad (except in Bhutan and Ind ia) for more than three mon ths may open these accounts. Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in most of the freely usable currencies and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Cu r rent accounts may be opened with a m in imum equivalent to $500, and time deposits with a m i n im um equ iva lent to $3,000. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. With prior approval, commercial banks may open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Diplomats and foreign nationals, except Ind ian nationals, may open foreign currency accounts freely with Nepalese banks. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports On February 29, 2000, one item was added to the list of items imported from I n d ia that have to be settled in foreign exchange, bringing the total number to 33. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Most imports are covered by OGLs. Imports of arms, ammun i t ion, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewe l ry r equ i re special permission from the governmen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 662 NEPAL Open general licenses Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxe s and/or tar iffs Yes. Quan t i ta t ive restriction s are in effect for the importation of poppy seeds. There are seven ta r i ff rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 40% as we ll as two special rates of 80% and 130%), w i th most goods subject to either the 15% or the 25% rate. Nepalese citi- zens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are permit- ted to br ing in goods worth NRs 1,000 free of customs duties and sales taxes. Citizens w i th official sources of foreign exchange earnings and who have stayed abroad for one month or more are allowed additional imports w i thout official documentation. State impo rt monopo ly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen t s F inanc ing requ irements Documentat ion requirement s Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated w i th in 180 days of receipt. Exporters are allowed to accept short payments in export proceeds, if they do not exceed $500 or 1%, whichever is higher. Approval by of the NRB is required for amounts above the specified l im i t. Exporters may retain the export earnings on the ir foreign currency account w i th local banks. Commercial banks may grant preexport credit of up to 70% of the f.o.b. va lue of products to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable LCs opened or endorsed by foreign banks and acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a max imum of three months; th is period may be extended without penalty under special circumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Exports to countries other than Ind ia are allowed on ly against irrevocable LCs or advance payments by fore ign banks. Export consignments not exceeding $50,000 may be undertaken on the basis of a bank guarantee. Reexportation to Ind ia of non-Nepalese goods and reexportation to any destination of goods imported from Ind ia are prohibited. Preshipment inspection is not compulsory. Exports of items hav ing archaeological and religious value, old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials are prohibited. The export volume of selected ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota system. There are nom inal export service charges, but no taxes are charged. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payment s Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is required in the case of private sector loan amortization. The l im i t ranged from $700 to $1,500, depending on destination, un t il June 27, 2000, when the l im i t for travel to the United States and western Europe was revised to $2,000 and that for other countries to $1,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Other payments Prior approval NEPAL 663 Pr ior approval of the government is requ i red for transfers related to medical and study abroad costs. Yes. The use of cred it cards abroad is allowed under specific gu ide l ines. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Non res iden ts may invest in equ i ty shares of up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. Yes. Yes. Yes. No transactions have occurred as yet. Controls on credit operat ions Specified borrowers may borrow from abroad on the basis of gu ide l ines. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 NEPAL Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Nepalese citizens, whether or not residing in Nepal, are not allowed to make any type of inves tment in foreign countries, except as specifically permitted by gove rnment notice. The exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any bank ing or f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal. Investments requ ire pr ior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Department of Indus try. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related in- dustries. Foreign investors may hold 100% equ i ty in large- and medium-scale industries. Foreign securities f irms are permitted to form joint ventures with local state exchange members, but the ir ownersh ip is l im i ted to 40%. There are controls based on the provisions of the Company Act. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad The approval of the NRB is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exporters, tourism-related businesses, and specific industries are entitled to such credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No such transactions have occurred. Differential treatment is based on the type of currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 665 Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments February 29. One item was added to the list of items imported from I n d ia that have to be paid in foreign exchange, br ing ing the total to 33. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers June 27. The l im i ts for travel were revised to $2,000 for travel to the Un i ted States and western Europe and $1,000 for travel to other countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Netherlands gu i lder un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the gu i lder and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions The Ne ther lands participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ire land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. In ternal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the gu i lder is set at f. 2.20371 per €1. The ECB has the right to in tervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not l im i ted as to de l ivery period, nor is an und e r ly ing trade transaction requ ired. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. In compliance w i th the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions and/or EU regulations, certain restrictions are imposed on f inanc ial transactions w i th Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola, and the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan). Restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l if ted on November 14, 2000, except as regards specific ind iv idua ls associated w i th the former government. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 666 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts NETHERLANDS 667 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts In comp l iance w i th re levant UN Security Counc il resolutions and/or EU regulations, f u n ds belonging to Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola, and the Taliban (the Islamic State of A fghan i s tan) are b locked. Blocks on f u n ds be long ing to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugosla- via were l i f ted on November 14, 2000, except as regards specific i n d i v i d u a ls associated with the former government. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures Import licenses are required for a limited number of products, ma in ly those of the agr icu l tura l, steel, and tex t i le sectors, as we ll as for goods of unknown o r ig in. These app ly to imports of tex t i les o r ig ina t ing in the Far East and in some fo rmer state trad ing countries. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to common EU regu la t ions. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopo ly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export l icenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 668 NETHERLANDS Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonres iden ts are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Re la t ions Act. No. No. No. No. No. No. L im i ts are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank the ir position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. On resident assets and liabilities Integrated reports with nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies are required. On nonresident assets and liabilities Integrated reports w i th nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies are required. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts November 14. Restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Nonresident accounts November 14, Blocks on funds belonging to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were l i f t ed, except as regards specific ind iv idua l s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean guilder. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The gu i lder is pegged to the dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The off ic ial se l l ing rate is NA f. 1.82 per $1. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are set daily on the basis of rates of the dollar abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where requ ired. The Department of Fi- nance (DOF) issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may provide foreign exchange for all current transactions without prior approval of the CB. Sanctions under UN resolutions against Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are in effect. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is prohibited except for travel purposes. Nonres iden ts may take w i th them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident ind iv idu a ls may hold these accounts w i thout a special l icense. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Transfers from a local bank account to fore ign accounts are a l lowed up to NA f. 50,000 a quarter. 669 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 670 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Imports with delivery dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the CB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Imported goods for wh ich there are locally produced substitutes are subject to ta r i f fs ranging from 25% to 90%. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curacao. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received w i th in 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the CB. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart. Investment-related payments There are restrictions on the transfer of profits. Prior approval Companies must subm it the ir annual report to the CB for ver if ica t ion of the actual amount of profits and d iv idends recorded before they may rem it them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 671 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirement s Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Investments by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are listed) are permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, provided that these payments are effected through a local exchange bank. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On capital market securities There are controls on all capital market transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all derivatives transactions. Controls on credit operations Credit operations requ ire licenses, wh ich are norma l ly granted. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct inves tment Inves tmen ts requ i re licenses, wh ich are no rma l ly granted. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A license is required for these purchases. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Only short-term loans are permitted. To residents from nonresidents Only short-term loans are permitted. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Inves tment regulation s Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. CB approval is requ ired for the acqu is i t ion of more than 5% of shares in other companies. Yes. Yes. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Banks are not allowed to have negative net foreign asset positions. Any negative pos i t ion is subject to penalty. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents n . r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally The l im i ts are 40% for the first NA f. 10 m i l l ion, 50% for the next NA f. 10 m i l l i o n, and 60% for additional amounts of the total provisions and liabilities. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There must be sufficient assets in a particular currency to cover the l i ab i l i t i es in that currency (currency exposure is not allowed). Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no securities law. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on ) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. Certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for cu r rent international transactions w i th respect to Iraq, and s im i lar ly w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia in compliance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions. Res tr ic t ions w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia resolution have been suspended since December 1995 in cases where it is clear that the assets, money, and securities are not subject to any claim or interest on the part of the successor states of the Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia other than Serbia/Montenegro. Certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions have been imposed with respect to the UNITA movement in Angola, to Libya, and to the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan). No. No. The F inanc ial Transactions Repor t ing Act requ ires that imports and exports of banknotes be reported. A customs documentation form, required when entering or leaving the country, inc ludes a requ i rement to declare amoun ts greater than $NZ 10,000 or its equ iva len t. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 673 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 674 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs NEW ZEALAND Nonresident Accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import proh ib i t ions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products— primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. For nonprimary produce, tariffs apply to imported products that compete w i th New Zea- land's domestic production. All primary produce competing with New Zealand's domestic production is admitted free of tariff. Overall, more than 90% of imports (by value) are im- ported free of duty. Most tariffs are ad valorem, except for many clothing products, where "alternative specific" tariffs apply. Tariffs on affected goods are either ad valorem (generally 19%) or a corre- sponding alternative specific tariff expressed in dollars per unit, whichever is higher. Tar- iffs for most imports from nonpreferential sources are 6—8%. The only tar iffs over 15% apply to clothing (19%) and carpets and footwear (both 17.5%). Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SPARTECA agreements, imports from the participating countries enter New Zealand duty free, wh i le Canada enjoys a margin of preference. Eligible imports from developing countries are allocated tariff preferences, while the 48 least-developed countries are granted duty-free access for all products, except clothing and footwear. Effective January 1, 2001, products imported from Singapore are exempted from tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 675 Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported on ly when specific requ i remen ts have been met and an export pe rm it has been issued. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. U n d er the Overseas Inves tment Regulations, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland," "land," and f ish ing-quo ta investments, wh ich apply both to new investors and to ex is t ing fore ign-con tro l led f i rms. Non land investments invo lv ing the acqu is i t ion of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand company —and where the consideration exceeds $NZ 50 m i l l i on or wh ich invo lve the purchase of property costing more than $NZ 50 m i l l ion, to be used in carrying on a business —are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceed- ing $NZ 50 m i l l ion in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the procedure is straightforward. Under the Fisheries Act, a nonresident must obtain either an exemption or a perm iss ion to acquire or to con t inue ho ld ing a f i sh ing quota, an interest in quota, annual catch en t i t lemen t, or prov is ional catch h is tory. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign inves tment in certain types of land is subject to both a bona f ide investor test and a "national interest" test. Land acqu is i t ions that requ ire au thor iza t ion relate to any land exceed ing 5 hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 m i l l i o n, and is lands or land con ta in ing or ad jo in ing reserves, historic or heritage areas, and the foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectares. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 676 NEW ZEALAND Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 1. Products imported from Singapore were exempted from tariffs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 30, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of N icaragua is the Nicaraguan cordoba. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control The devaluation of the cordoba against the dollar is 6% per annum. The central government and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are free to undertake purchases or sales of foreign exchange w i th the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN). There is no tax, but the CBN charges a comm iss ion of 1% on sales of fo re ign exchange. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Nicaragua is a member of the CACM. Exchange operations between private agents are not restricted. The CBN allows authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Payment arrears are ma in ta ined w i th members of the Paris C lub and non-Paris C l ub countries. The Nicaraguan M in ing Ins t i tu te manages the coun t ry 's gold produc t ion. An au tho r iza t ion from the CBN is required to operate as a gold exporter. Natural and ju r id ical persons may trade gold coins (commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980) for numismatic purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 677 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts NICARAGUA Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Cordoba accounts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) contracts may be opened with commercial banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All importers must subm it an import declaration form either to commercial banks or to customs when they are using the ir own resources. Letters of credit Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. No. Imports of 746 items are subject to a temporary import tariff of 15%, independent of their origin, and all imports are subject to a sales tax and the Central American common tariff. The max imum tariff is 10%. The max imum import tariff for certain tobacco and alcoholic beverage items is 20%. An additional 35% import duty, a "sovereignty tax," is imposed on imports from Honduras and Colombia. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Export licenses are not required, but all exports must be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 679 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Capital Transactions On March 3, 2000, the CBN authorized the emission of US$20 m i l l ion of foreign currency bonds called "BOMEX" to be distributed and redistributed through commercial banks. Each ins t i tu t ion is assigned a percentage based on the ins t i tu t ion 's reserve requ irement con t r ibu t ion (there is a 16.25% m i n im um requ iremen t). These bonds are considered short- term bonds redeemable after 90 days, and y ie ld ing the same interest rate as that applied to reserves held by the CBN abroad. If an ins t i tu t ion or commercial bank fa i ls to meet these criteria, the reserve requ i rement for that ins t i tu t ion is increased to 20% for both domestic and foreign currency. No. No. For statistical purposes, these credits must be reported to the CBN w i t h in 30 days after they have been granted. To residents from nonresidents The same requ i rement app l ies as for commercial credits. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct investment Foreign exchange or ig ina t ing from new investments or additions to capital must be surren- dered to the CBN through commercial banks. However, in practice, this regulation has become obsolete as a result of the elimination of exchange controls. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Contro ls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements No. No. No. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings n .r. Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks These in s t rum en ts may on ly be issued by the CBN or the gove rnmen t. There are p r u d e n t i al l im i t s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 NICARAGUA Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There are prudential limits established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions, Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions March 3. The CBN authorized the emission of US$20 million of foreign currency bonds called "BOMEX" to be distributed and redistributed through commercial banks. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the in terven t ion currency, at a fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the off ic ial buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris fore ign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange comm iss ion of 2% on exchanges i n v o l v i ng French francs and a commission on purchases and sales of other currencies, the rate of wh ich is freely determined. In add i t ion, they levy a bank comm iss ion of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. Exchange subs idy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle paymen ts related to imports and exports of goods and services, and maturities may not take place after the payment due date for the imports or exports in question. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because N iger is l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs or the currency of any other Operations Account country or any other currency stipulated in commerc ial contracts. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count coun tr ies. All purchases or sales of fore ign currenc ies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement exists w i th in the WAMA between the member states of the WAEMU and Cape Verde, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, L iber ia, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to au thor ized banks, wh ich are requ i red to report those operations to the MOF. The on ly operations that con- t i n ue to requ i re p r ior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO invo lve residents' invest- ments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. Internat ional security restrictions No. 681 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 Payment arrears Off ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency NIGER Yes. Yes. Impor ts and exports of gold requ i re p r ior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con ta in ing a m inor quantity of gold (such as go ld - f i l led or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined we ight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Travelers are allowed to export CFA franc banknotes w i th in the WAEMU. However, re- purchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes continue to be suspended. In addition, the sh ipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and the ir correspondent banks located outside of the WAEMU zone is strictly proh ib i ted. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and must surrender them w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks or banks abroad after ob ta in ing authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but p r ior approval is requ ired. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to prior MOF authorization, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonres iden ts are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO au thor iza t ion is requ ired. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside the WAEMU countries, these accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, French franc notes, or any other banknote issued by a central bank ma in ta in ing an Opera- t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency These accounts may be freely debited for the purchase of foreign currencies on the o f f ic ial market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 683 Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acqu ire foreign exchange un t il the scheduled date of the payment. Exchange authorization and invoices are required. Domiciliation requirement s All imports exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required for the qua l i ty and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l i on f.o.b. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Other nontariff measures Quantitative restrictions may be applied on products for public health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a GET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The due date of payment for exports must fa ll w i th in 120 days after the goods have been shipped. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchasing country, must be repatriated in their entirety through the BCEAO no later than 30 days from the date of receipt. The repatriation of proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries is not required. Surrender requirements F inan c ing requirement s Yes. No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be dom ic i led w i t h an authorized intermediary bank. Licenses are requ ired for gold and groundnuts. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Payments for inv i s ib le transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries l inked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 NIGER Investment-related payment s Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments fo r travel Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Residents t rave l in g as tourists or on business to franc zone countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l i on in cash in foreign currency. Any sum above this amount may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other payment instruments. Foreign currency is issued upon presentation to an authorized bank of a ticket and a va l id passport or iden t i ty card. The amount of foreign currency to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Requ i red for payment of fam i ly maintenance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon the presentation of pay slips. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payment s Cred it cards issued by resident f inanc ial in termed iar ies or foreign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may be used abroad. Credit cards issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the MOF may be used up to the ce i l ing for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirement s Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions w i th countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU members, must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capita l market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital in f lows to WAEMU countries are unres tr ic ted. Capital transfers to all other coun- tries requ i re MOF approval, but receipts are freely perm i t ted. All inves tmen ts abroad by residents require MOF authorization; 75% of such investments must be financed from funds borrowed from abroad. There are no controls on foreign investments in WAEMU countries or on capital outflows for repayment of loans, d is inves tment abroad, and option contract purchases. These opera- t ions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is requ ired for the issuing and marke t ing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, or advertising investments abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents These are subject to declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 685 Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Res iden ts may purchase securities sold or issued by non res iden ts on ly after o b t a i n i ng the au tho r iza t ion of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents The p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is r equ i r ed for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Res iden ts may sell securities free ly to non res iden ts for d i s i n v e s tm e nt purposes, but the se t t lement by transfer abroad or by a cred it to a n o n r e s i d e n t 's account requ i res an exchange license issued by the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secur i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On money market ins trumen ts The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On collective investment securities The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These ins t rumen ts are v i r tu a l ly u n k n own in N iger. However, in s t rum en ts of t h is type are governed by the ru les and regu la t ions no rm a l ly app l icab le to securities and d i rect inves t- ments. Residents are authorized to purchase abroad call and put options in commod i t i es and securities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits to non re s iden ts may be granted f ree ly for me rchand i se exports if the due date of payment is w i t h in 120 days f o l l ow i ng sh ipment of the goods; comme rc ial c red i ts for ser- vices may be granted f ree ly; no t ime l im it has been o f f i c i a l ly f ixed for such p aym en t. To residents from nonresidents There are no con tro ls on the gran t ing of loans of th is type. The ir repayment is, in gene ra l, au tho r ized, subject to the subm i s s ion of documen t s. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents The gran t ing of f inanc ial cred it is subject to p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. For the trans- fer abroad of f u n ds in th is context, a fore ign exchange au tho r iza t ion mu st be subm i t t ed for clearance from the MOF, together w i th the necessary suppo r t ing documen ts. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but f u n ds requ i red to service these f a c i l i t i es mu st be t rans fe r red through an authorized in te rmed ia ry. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for f i n a n c i al credits. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment There are no controls, but the necessary f u n ds must be transferred from abroad th rough an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry. If, however, these transac t ions take place between a d i rect inves t- ment company resident in Niger and its parent company located abroad, the t ransac t ions are considered d irect inves tmen ts and r equ i re a p r ior dec la ra t ion to the MOF. Pa r t ic ipa t ion in a company is considered d i rect inve s tment if it exceeds 20%. A u t h o r i z a t i on from the MOF is no longer requ ired for inves tmen ts cons is t ing of the a cqu i s i t ion by resi- dents of securities, for wh i ch the issue or marketing by nonres iden ts has been authorized in advance by the RCPSFM. A m a x im um of 75% of such investments may be f inanced w i th borrowing from abroad. Inwa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd inves tment is subject to p r ior repor t ing to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion of a resident's investments abroad must be reported to the MOF. Re inves t- ment of the proceeds of such l iqu id a t ions is subject to p r ior MOF au tho r iza t ion. If re in- vestment is not au tho r ized, the proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in one mon th th rough an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 NIGER authorized bank. There are no controls on the sale of foreign inves tment in Niger, but such operations must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is requ i red. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans Purchases for purposes other than direct inves tment in a business, branch, or company are allowed w i th pr ior declaration to the MOF. Operations may be settled on ly after the approval of the MOF. Fo l low ing settlement, the l iqu ida t ion or sale must be reported to the MOF and to the BCEAO w i t h in 20 days. By residents to nonresidents P r ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is requ i red. To residents from nonresidents A declaration for statistical purposes and submission of a report to the MOF is required. G i f t s, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G i f ts and endowmen ts are subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Inher i tances and legacies are generally authorized. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration to the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Imm ig ran ts who have acquired resident status must first obtain authorization from the MOF to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to prior authorization to the MOF. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad The same regu la t ions apply as for f inanc ial loans contracted by residents. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may open accounts w i th correspondent banks but are not authorized to ho ld l i q u id assets, except to meet the needs of the ir current operations. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) The pr ior au thor iza t ion of the MOF is requ ired. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Loans and other assistance granted to nonresidents are sub ject to pr ior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Yes. The same regu la t ions app ly as for direct inves tmen t. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the In ter-Afr ican Conference of Insurance Markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 687 L im i ts (m in .) on investment por tfo l io held locally The Insurance Code inc ludes specific ru les for the use of insurance companies' technical reserves. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The WAEMU introduced a GET w i th four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%) for all member coun tr ies except Guinea-Bissau. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requ irements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion o f control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian naira. There is a bureau de change and parallel market in foreign exchange. D u r i ng 2000, the exchange rate in these markets diverged increas ing ly from the in terbank rate. The p r em i um of the parallel market rate over the interbank rate widened from an average of 5% d u r i ng January-Ju ly 2000 to an average of 14.5% d u r i ng August-December 2000. The exchange rate of the naira is determined in the interbank market. The interbank rate is set as the outcome of telephone dea l ing among approved dealer banks and the Central Bank of N iger ia (CBN). The CBN sells government receipts of foreign exchange in the in terbank market. Petroleum companies may sell the ir proceeds from oil exports to the CBN or to approved dealer banks. However, payments of Petroleum Profits Tax and royalties are re- qu i red t o be subm i t ted in foreign exchange d irec t ly to the governmen t's account w i th the CBN. Approved dealer banks may buy foreign exchange from the CBN on the ir own ac- count (subject to pruden t ial requirements on open forward positions), or on behalf of the ir customers, who are required to jus t i fy their purchases of foreign exchange w i th reference to trade, remittance, or other requ i remen ts. No. No. Forward exchange transactions in the in terbank market are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and their customers, subject to p ruden t ial l im i t s. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. The CBN formulates basic foreign exchange policy and issues directives as appropriate for the operation of the in te rbank market. The CBN approves and revokes the appo in tmen ts of authorized dealers or authorized buyers of foreign currency, and supervises and mon i to rs the operation of the in terbank market. In terna t ional secur ity restrictions No. Payment arrears For most of 2000, N ige r ia was in arrears on its external debt. On December 13, 2000, Paris C l u b creditors agreed w i th the government of N ige r ia to res t ruc tu re its ex te rnal debt. 688 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 689 This debt rescheduling agreement w i ll enter into force on Ap r il 15, 2001, unless N ige r ia 's track record w i th the In terna t ional Monetary Fund and the Paris C lub is not considered satisfactory. Most of the arrears were to Paris C lub bilateral creditors, but there were also small arrears to multilateral and non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. Arrears to multilateral creditors were cleared in late 2000. Residents othe r than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed, w i thout special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins, at home or abroad. Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ i re specific licenses issued by the Federal M in is t ry of Finance (FMF). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation of amounts in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. The exportation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Importation of amounts in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. The importation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Any person may open, maintain, and operate a dom ic i l iary account designated in fore ign currency w i t h an authorized dealer. No. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts are ma in ta ined for diplomatic representatives of all countries and interna- tional organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nige- ria to residents of foreign countries, w i th payments from other external accounts, and w i th proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Domestic currency accounts Funds derive d from local sources may be deposited in nonres ident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonres ident accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from services rendered locally, and remittance can be effected subject to adequate documentation. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 690 NIGERIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F i n a n c i ng requ irements for imports No. No. Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts for release of foreign exchange for impor ts P re sh ipment inspec t ion Letters of cred it Impo rt licenses and other non tar i ff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Un less a "clean report of f ind ings" has been issued on the goods to be imported, fore ign exchange settlements for impor ts may not be effected. Transactions i n v o l v i ng the use of b i l ls for collection and open accounts are a l lowed. Transactions executed on pr iva te sector i n i t i a t i ve do not, however, carry any government guarantee or obligation. The remittances are to be made through the interbank foreign exchange market or w i th autonomous funds, w h i le the relevant sh ipp ing documen ts for the transactions are to be channe led th rough au thor ized dealers. All containerized imports, irrespective of the ir va lue, are subject to p resh ipment inspec t ion. Importers are responsible for the payment of 1% of the f.o.b. va lue of goods as a service charge for the Comprehens ive Import Superv is ion Scheme. Import payments covered by confirmed LCs are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the unders tand ing that the goods paid for w i ll arrive in N ige r ia and that all sh ipp ing documents are lodged by importers w i th the authorized dealers w i th in 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. The impor ta t ion of mosqu i to repe l lant coils, sorghum, m i l l e t, wheat flour, retreaded or used tires, gypsum, kao l in, and gam ing mach ines is prohibited. Impo rt du t ies range from zero to 100%, w i th most goods subject to rates between 10% and 40%. The unwe igh ted average du ty is about 12%, except for maize (70%) and bentonites (30%). In add i t ion, f ive import surcharges app ly: a 7% port deve lopment surcharge; a 5% levy on imported sugar; a 2% surcharge on au tomob i les; a 1% Raw Materials and Devel- opment Counc il surcharge; and a 0.02% fre ight rate stabilization surcharge earmarked for the N ige r ian Shippers Counc i l. Certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. Effective Apr il 1, 2000, duties on intra-regional trade between Ghana and Nigeria were removed. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Export proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in 90 days from the date of sh ipment of the goods. Surrender requ i remen ts Non -o il exporters are perm i t ted to sell the ir export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at in te rbank rates, or use the f u n ds to f inance e l ig ib le transactions. F inan c ing requirements n.a. Documentat ion requirements Letters of credit Dom i c i l i a t ion Export licenses Payment for exports should be made w i th LCs or any other international mode of payment. Repatriated non-o il export proceeds and other in f lows should be held in dom ic i l ia ry accounts maintained with authorized dealers in Nigeria. Holders of the domiciliary accounts have easy access to the ir funds ma in ta ined the re in, subject to the existing gu ide l ine s, and may sell th e ir export proceeds to banks other than those whe re they m a in t a in the ir dom i c i l i a ry accounts. Produc t ion of un re f ined gold and pe tro leum products is subject to l icens ing. The exporta- t ion of A f r ican antiques, works of art, and objects used in A f r ican ceremonies is proh ib i ted, except und er certain cond i t ions. Exports of t imber (rough and sawn), raw h ides and skins, scrap metal, and unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps are proh ib i ted. Exports of pe- t ro l eum are hand led by the N ige r ian Na t ional Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 691 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers App l ica t ions for foreign exchange must be submitted to banks; such payments are a l lowed, sub ject to documen ta t ion requirements. Trade-related payments Quantitative limits The l im it for comm iss ions is 2% on b i l ls for collection. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Inves tmen t-re la ted payments Transfers of profits are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Prior approval App l ica t ions for the remittance of profits and d iv idends from capital inves tment are made th rough authorized dealers and do not requ ire pr ior approval, but are subject to documentation requirements. Indicative limits/bona fide test In terest on b i l ls for collection transactions is subject to a m a x im um of 2% above the p r ime rate preva i l ing in the country of the beneficiary. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Up to 100% of net salary after tax may be transferred abroad, sub ject to a documen ta t ion requ i remen t. Indicative limits/bona fide test Ev idence of income earned must be p rov ided. Other payments Up to 5% of consulting and legal fees for projects of a high technological content, for wh i ch local expertise is not available, may be remitted. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be received through banks. Surrender requ i remen ts All proceeds from oil companies are sold d irec t ly to banks, i n c l u d i ng the CBN. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Applications for private capital transfers abroad are processed by banks, subject to sat- isfactory documen ta t ion. No pr ior approval is requ ired, except in the case of the Debt Convers ion Program (DCP). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions may be conducted through authorized dealers. Purchase abroad by residents Residents of N ige r ia may deal in foreign currency securities and may buy from, or sell to, nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without any prior approval. Bonds or other debt securities The DCP regulates the purchase of selected N iger ian foreign debt ins t rumen ts (m a in ly CBN promissory notes arising from past consolidation of unsecured trade credit arrears) at a d iscount and the d ispos i t ion of the naira proceeds on the conversion of such debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 NIGERIA On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Wh i le documented inves tmen ts are perm i t ted, the transfer to external accounts is not. Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inwa rd d irect inves tment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Permission of the FMF is not requ ired for nonres ident i n d i v i d u a ls or companies (other than banks) registered in N ig e r ia that are con tro l led d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly from outside N ige r ia. However, to enable companies to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in N ige r ia may grant loans or overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges pay- able thereon. General permission is also g iven for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Approval is not requ i red from the FMF for any i n d i v i d u a l, f i rm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. However, official agencies and state-controlled corporations need the pr ior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The con- tracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the FMF. There are no ce i l ings for foreign capital par t ic ipa t ion in the equ i ty capital of enterprises in var ious sectors of the economy. The N ige r ian Inves tment Promotion Comm iss ion deals w i th all matters re la t ing to registration and the prescr ip t ion of app l icab le incen t ives for direct capital investment in priority areas. Approval of the FMF is not needed. Capital proceeds a r is ing from the subsequent disposal of investments made und er the DCP may on ly be repatriated 10 years after the e f fec t ive inve s tment of the proceeds, and is l im i ted to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions shou ld not exceed $500, or the equ iva len t, at a time. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of g amb l ing and prize earnings Gamb l ing is p roh ib i ted. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 693 Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements Reserve requ i remen ts are not computed on foreign exchange deposits. Liquid asset requirements L iqu id assets are not computed on fore ign exchange deposits. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks CBN approval is requ ired. In banks by nonresidents The inf low of funds is subject to the prov is ions of the Money Launde r ing Decree. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 13. Paris C lub creditors agreed to restructure N ige r ia 's debt. Arrears to mu l t i la te ral creditors were cleared in late 2000. Imports and import payments April 1. Duties on intra-regional trade between Ghana and Nigeria were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I I I Date of acceptance: May 11, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Norway is the Norwegian krone. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The monetary policy objective of the Bank of Norway (BN) is to ma in ta in the s tab i l i ty of the krone against other European currencies. No f luc tua t ion margins are established. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents n.a. Payments between residents in foreign currency may be effected only through transfers from the payer's to the payee's account. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control The BN, in cooperation with the MOF, exercises control. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq. Blocked accounts and restric- tions on financial transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were l im i ted to certain Yugoslav citizens on November 1, 2000. No. No. A resident or nonresident who on entry into or departure from Norway is carrying Norwe- gian and/or foreign banknotes and coins equ iva lent to more than NKr 25,000 a person a journey i s obliged to no t i fy the Customs Adm in is tra t ion on the prescribed form. A resident or nonresident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, courier, or other form of transport containing Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equ iva lent to more than NKr 25,000, is obliged to no t i fy the BN in w r i t ing. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. He ld domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 694 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 695 Held abroad There is a notification and reporting requ irement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the p rev ious 12 mon ths exceed NKr 100 m i l l i o n. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad There is a notification and reporting requirement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the p rev ious 12 months exceed NKr 100 m i l l i o n. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. In accordance w i th UN resolutions, it is p roh ib i ted to alter, transfer, or remove abroad any deposit made by Iraqi authorities, enterprises, or citizens. There are restrictions on deposits made in the country by certain Yugoslav citizens. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for impor ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas All imports from Iraq are proh ib i ted, and there are restrictions on trade w i th and paymen ts to or from certain Yugoslav citizens. Restrictions on trade w i th L ibya have been suspended. Yes. Yes. Other nontariff measures Certain measures are imposed for sanitary reasons. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Exports sub ject to regu la t ion are listed and requ i re licenses. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 NORWAY Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The control applies on ly to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. No. No. The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward investment and establishment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition No one may hold more than 10% of the share capital in a Norwegian f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion, except foreign f inanc ial institutions, which may hold more than 50%. Credit institutions and investment firms are subject to exposure regulations. Net positions of up to 15% of the institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in ind iv idual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept w i th in 30% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. Insurance companies and pension funds are subject to controls regarding classes of invest- ments held against technical provisions to ensure a sufficiently diversified portfolio (e.g., there is a combined cap of 35% on domestic and foreign shares). There are no currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for inves tment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance and pension f u n ds for wh ich net f inanc ial assets in a currency have to be equivalent to at least 80% of technical provisions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 697 in the same currency at any t ime. An insurance company cannot have negative financial assets in a currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws Other controls are inc luded in the Act on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Management. Arrangements for payments and receipts November J. Blocked accounts and restrictions on financial transactions with respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were limited to certain Yugoslav citizens. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the r ial Omani is pegged to the do l lar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. n.a. n.a. No. The Central Bank of Oman (CBO) has exclusive exchange control au thor i ty; there is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions Restrictions are imposed w i th respect to Israel. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Gold transactions w i th Israel are p roh ib i ted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n .a. 698 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 699 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports. Companies operating in Oman and t rad ing in manufac tured oil products are p roh ib i ted from importing specified products, as long as domestic produc t ion is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. All imports from Israel are proh ib i ted. Customs duties range from 5% for most goods to 100% for imports of alcoholic beverages. Customs duties are not levied on government imports. On January 1, 2000, the custom duty rate for imports of luxu ry goods was lowered to 5% from 15%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Paymen ts for inv i s ib les are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. Investment-related payments Prior approval Rem i t tances of prof i ts and d i v i d e n ds by commerc ial banks requ ire p r ior approval from the CBO. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 OMAN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign share ownership in Omani companies is l im i ted to 49%, but it could be raised to 100%. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits The Oman Development Bank may provide med ium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project f inanc ing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and m ineral sec- tors; it may also give assistance in preinvestment research. In addition, the government provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects with an Omani majority share- ho ld ing that are used for industrial production for exportation, indus tr ial production us ing indigenous raw materials or labor, or the development of tourism. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment in business firms in Oman by nonresidents requires prior approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No. Yes. Yes. No. Overall foreign borrowing by ind iv idual commercial banks is restricted to 300% of their net worth. Subceilings of 200% and 100% are applicable for foreign loans w i th ma tur i ty periods of up to five years and up to two years, respectively. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is limited to 30% of the lending bank's net worth with a sub l im it of 5% for an ind iv idual nonresident borrower. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 40% of banks' capital and reserves, Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 701 Imports and import payments January 1. The custom duty rate for imports of luxury goods was lowered to 5% from 15%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of April 30, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The exchange rate of the rupee was pegged de facto to the dollar un t il Ju ly 20, 2000, when the authorities exited from the uno f f ic ial exchange rate band regime. At that time, the rupee was allowed to depreciate by 5% against the dollar and by a further 7% in late September. All current international transactions are now conducted at the interbank exchange rate. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no prearranged path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. No. No. There is a forward market. The max imum tenure of forward cover provided by banks for trade transactions is 12 months, and these facilities are also provided for funds transferred from abroad for portfolio investment. Forward exchange cover for private foreign currency deposits, except for deposits brought under FE Circular 45 of 1985, is provided by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), wh ich charges an annual fee of 8% on onshore dollar deposits to bring them in l ine w i th the rates in the in terbank forward foreign exchange market. For deposits made und er FE C i rcu lar 45 of 1985, the forward cover fee is 5.5%. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Pakistan is a member of the ACU. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU w i th respect to current transactions are effected in AMUs, at the rate of AMU 1 per $1. The SBP has delegated au thor i ty to a numb er of banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to deal in all foreign currencies, and to sell or purchase foreign exchange w i th in limits prescribed by the SBP for different transactions. No. No. The import and export of gold in to and from Pakistan is subject to SBP au tho r i z a t ion. 702 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency PAKISTAN 703 There is no control on local trade in gold bu l l ion. The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the SBP; such permission is not usua l ly granted. Imports are allowed through dealers authorized by the governmen t. An ind iv idua l may take out up to PRs 500 to Ind ia and PRs 3,000 to other coun tr ies. No one may take out of Pakistan fore ign currency in excess of $10,000 or its equ iva lent w i thout permission. An individual may bring in up to PRs 500 from India and PRs 3,000 from other countries. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authorized dealers (ADs) and nonbank financial institutions are allowed to offer a new foreign currency account (FCA) scheme. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase special do l lar bonds of the government of Pakistan against the outstanding balances in their FCAs or to convert the foreign currency into Pakistan rupees. These accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad, trave ler's checks, and for- eign currency notes. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from services of residents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan f irms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. FCAs maintained by resident corporate bodies or legal entities may not be credited by generating or purchasing foreign currency funds from the kerb market, unless specifically allowed by the SBP. Amounts of incre- mental deposits made on or after Ju ly 1, 1998, in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no l im i ts on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be perma- nen t ly retained, and an upper ce i l ing on the rate of interest on term deposits (of three mon ths and up to f ive years) is fixed by the SBP w i th government approval. The rates are based on the eurodollar deposit bid rate of Barclays Bank, London. The marg ins over the eurodollar deposit bid rates range from 0.75% for three-month deposits to 2% for five-year deposits. Under the new FCA scheme, institutions are free to keep/invest their deposits abroad or in Pakistan. However, deposits mobilized with effect from June 3, 1999, may be employed only in Pakistan. To lend such funds to borrowers in Pakistan, ADs would be required to observe prudential regulations of the SBP. However, ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors. Balances of up to the equivalent of $1,000 may be held abroad by residents in any country (except the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, and Israel) in FCAs, wh ich may not be used for operations from Pakistan without the approval of the SBP. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Pakistan nationals res id ing abroad; foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Paki- stan; and f irms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise e l ig ib le ma y open FCAs w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout the pr ior approval of the exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 PAKISTAN control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistan nationals ho ld ing such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. ADs under the FCA fac i l i ty may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, inc lud ing financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $0.5 m i l l ion (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least six months. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 1% above LIBOR. The sale of foreign currencies to nonresident bank branches and correspondents against credit balances available in their nonresident rupee accounts requires prior approval of the State Bank. On Ap r il 3, 2000, restrictions on the opening of FCAs by d ip loma t ic missions and the staff of international organizations were eliminated. Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase do l lar bonds of the gove rnment of Pakistan against outstanding balances in their FCAs. Funds mobilized under the new FCA scheme are not required to be surrendered to the SBP nor does the SBP provide forward cover in respect of such accounts. ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts. (Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idu- als, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand.) Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for non- bank nonresidents without prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remit- tance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout prior approval. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Domestic currency accounts are convertible into foreign currency when opened as convertible rupee accounts w i th f u n ds received from abroad. Blocked accounts Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Ind ian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Advance payments of up to 33.33% are allowed by the SBP when the goods are of a specialized or capital nature. There is a cash margin requirement. There is a 35% nonremunerated import deposit requ i rement for import transactions other than those for new indus tr ial materials, mach inery and spare parts, pe tro leum, ed ib le oils, wheat, and eight other products, Clean-on-board-ship b i l ls of lading and other documentation as stipulated by contracts or LCs are required. Imports valued at or above $10,000 or its equivalent must be documented subsequently with the surrender of a customs b i ll of entry. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required. Negative list Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons, and goods banned under international agreements. The list includes four textile items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 705 Other nontariff measures Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 34 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Imports of 17 items on the procedural list requ ire certain technical expertise (e.g., pe tro leum) or certain conditions (e.g., unassembled cars). Import taxes and/or tariffs The max imum customs tariff is 35%, except for motor vehicles, liquor, and tobacco. State import monopoly Imports of wheat are permitted for the pub l ic sector on ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds must be repatriated by the due dates of bills of exchange or w i th in four months of shipment. Export proceeds may be held in a special exporter's account for up to three working days only for the purpose of sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters are permitted to sell their entire proceeds in the intrabank market w i th in three days. They may, however, retain up to 5% of f.o.b. va lue in the ir FCA for commissions to be paid to agents or importers abroad. This l im it is 35% for software exports. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order, the exporter's registration w i th the Export Promotion Bureau, and form "E." Domiciliation Yes. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is mandatory only for rice exports. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Export licenses are not required; however, registration is required. An export development surcharge of 0.25% is levied on all exports, except for a few specified items. Effective Ju l y 1, 2000, the standard rate of income tax on export proceeds is 1.25% (previously 1%). There are reduced rates of 1% (previously 0.75%) for exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan, and 0.75% (previously 0.5%) for exports of jewelry, ceramics, surgical equipment, and sporting goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There is no restriction on the payment of freight against invoices. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Commissions, brokerage fees, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice values. The rate is 1% for cement and more for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts /bona fide tests for the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits The remittance of d iv idends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign share- holders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies —other than banks and those engaged in insurance, ship- ping, and the a ir l ine business —and of dividends to foreign portfolio investors credited to their convertible rupee accounts is permitted without restriction, provided that the required documents are submitted to the SBP. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. Effective January 18, 2000, ADs are authorized to execute these remittances without prior SBP approval. Prior approval is required for the transfer of profits. Interest payments are allowed up to 1.5% over LIBOR. However, there is no l im it on interest w i t h respect to project loans. The payment of interest is permitted und er imports on ly on a usance basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 PAKISTAN Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative l im i ts or bona fide tests for the payment of profits and d iv idends. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Foreign exchange allowances for s tuden ts' t u i t i on fees and expenses as requ i red by i n s t i t u- tions may be obtained from ADs w i thout approval from the SBP. For medical costs, approval is required and is granted on a case-by-case basis. Allowances for professional tra in ing abroad are granted at the equivalent of $1,200 a month. For fam i ly maintenance and alimony payments, allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to the equ iva lent of $100 a day, subject to a m ax imum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit. There are no l im i ts if the amount is charged to the FCA of the cardholder, opened under the new FCA scheme. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There is no l im it for i n d i v i d u a ls w i th regard to subscr ip t ions and membe r sh ip fees. For professional and specialized organizations, the l im it is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. Prior approval is required for the payment of consu l t ing and legal fees. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds of foreign exchange earnings must be sold to an AD. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents Prior SBP approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue securities after ob ta in ing approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP). The proceeds associated w i th these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and mach ine ry abroad. Transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are allowed to trade freely in registered corporate debt instruments and bonds listed on the stock exchange, in federal investment bonds (FIBs), and in treasury b i l ls (TBs). Foreign bank branches in Pakistan and foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to make investments in registered, listed corporate debt ins trumen ts in the primary and secondary markets. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 707 Sale or issue abroad by residents Specific pe rm iss ion is requ i red, wh ich is granted if the proceeds of the bonds are to be used for the import of plants and mach inery. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase of TBs and certificates of investment (COIs) by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the sale of TBs and COIs purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents are, however, not permitted to issue such instruments in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the SECP. The proceeds associated w i th these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase un i ts of the National Investment Trust, the State Enterprise Mutual Fund of the Investment Corporation of Pakistan, and other mu tual funds listed on the Pakistan stock exchanges. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents may sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the SECP. The pro- ceeds associated w i th these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and mach inery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these secur i t ies issues is permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents On ly rights shares exist. There are no other derivatives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted, except for rights issues. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits of up to four months with respect to exported goods, and up to 12'/2 years with respect to the export of plants and machinery, are permitted. Credits of up to four mon ths w i th respect to exported goods, and up to 12!/2 years w i th respect to the export of plants and machinery, are permitted. To residents from nonresidents Residents have been granted general permission w i th certain conditions. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities There are no controls on these payments; however, parent companies of mu l t in a t ion a ls are also permitted to provide loans for financing the foreign currency cost of projects, as we ll as working-capital requirements. By residents to nonresidents There are no controls if the transaction is business-related. To residents from nonresidents This is subject to comp l iance w i th other credit restrictions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires pr ior approval under foreign exchange laws. Resident Pakistan nationals require prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or immovab le assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 708 PAKISTAN Inward direct investment held abroad, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through no rmal banking channels. No prior approval is required for investment in the manufacturing sector. Investment in new industrial un i ts for the manufacture of alcohol (except industrial alcohol) is banned. Inves tment in the specified industries of arms and ammun i t ions, security p r in t ing, cur- rency and m in t ing, h igh explosives, and radioactive substances requires pr ior approval. Foreigners are permitted to make investments in services, infrastructure, social, and agri- culture sectors, subject to the condition that the foreign equity investment must be at least $300,000 or its equivalent. Foreign investors may hold 100% foreign equity in the social and infras truc ture sectors. In the case of the services sector, they may hold 100% of foreign equ i ty for f ive years, subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) remittance of profits and d i v i- dends are restricted to 60% of total equity dur ing the five-year period; and (2) a m i n im um of 40% of the equity is transferred to Pakistan investors w i th in five years' time, inc lud ing disinvestment through the stock exchange. In the case of the agricultural sector, 40% of the equ i ty must be held by a Pakistan company or investor. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. No. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Up to PRs 500 is permitted. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer into the country by immigrants There are no quantitative restrictions on transfers through the secondary market. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittance is not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to resort to local borrowing for the ir working-capital requirements of up to 100% of their paid capital, reserves, etc., subject to observance of all other nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions rules. Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Transactions are allowed for temporary periods, and only if they become necessary for the normal course of business. Commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions were allowed to ma in ta in foreign accounts; limits for balances were fixed by the SEP. Effective April 2, 2001, these limits were e l im i- nated and replaced with prudential regulations and cash reserve requirements. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Foreign banks and foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to purchase foreign currency bearer certificates issued locally. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Every bank/nonbank financial institution accepting foreign currency deposits must use, invest, or place them in Pakistan. Interest rate controls Credit controls This is l inked to the respective London In terbank B idd ing Rate (LIBID). Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 709 Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Th is is l inked to the respective LIBID. Banks may not invest abroad except in the case of foreign currency deposits mobilized up to June 2, 1999. In banks by nonresidents Prior approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open position balances in nostro accounts are regulated by the SBP. There are l im i ts on banks' nostro accounts. There is an aggregate foreign exchange exposure l im it for each bank equ iva lent to 10% of its paid-up capital, w i th max imum and m i n im um l im i ts of PRs 500 m i l l ion and PRs 50 m i l l ion (in foreign currency), respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to issue securities in Pakistan, and residents require specific permission to make portfolio investments abroad. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment por tfo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds July 20. The rupee was allowed to depreciate by 5% against the dollar (it was allowed to depreciate a further 7% in late September), and all current international transactions were conducted at the interbank exchange rate. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to managed floating with no prearranged path for the exchange rate from con- ventional pegged arrangement. April 3. The restriction on opening FCAs and buy ing and selling foreign exchange on the in terbank market by d ip loma t ic missions and the staff of international organizations was e l im ina ted. July 1. The standard rate of income tax on export proceeds were increased to 1.25% from 1%. The reduced rates were increased to 1% from 0.75% and to 0.75% from 0.5%. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers January 18. ADs were au thor ized to execute investment-related paymen ts w i thout p r ior SBP approval. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions April 2. The l im i ts on the ma in tenance of accounts abroad were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th p rud en t i al regu la t ions and cash reserve requ i remen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 16, 1997. Currency The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate Yes. legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. n.a. n.a. No. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted n .r. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted n.a. n.r. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 710 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU 7 11 Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The impor ta t ion of controlled substances, guns, ammun i t ion, nonqua ran t ined f ru i t s, l i ve plants, and an ima ls is restricted. The tariff for general imports is 3%; government, personal, medical, and food imports are exempted. The tariff for cigarettes is $0.50 per 20, and for tobacco, it is 150% ad valorem. Cosmetics and toiletries have a tariff of 25%; carbonated soft drinks, $0.10 per 12 ounces; beer, $0.03 per ounce; liquor, $0.30 per ounce; wine, $0.20 per ounce; w ine coolers, $0.05 per ounce; l iqu id fuel, $0.05 per gallon; and vehicles, 5% ad valorem, p lus $250. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quota s Export taxes No. No. No. Yes. Export taxes are levied on fish exports ($0.25 per k i lo). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on capital and money market instrument s Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 712 PALAU Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Palau National Code restricts foreign direct investment without local ownership. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents According to the constitution, only citizens of Palau and corporations who l ly owned by citizens of Palau may acquire title to land or waters in Palau. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Specific provisions are applied only to the Palau National Development Bank, which is not involved in commercial banking. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: November 26, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Panama is the Panamanian balboa. It is the u n it of account and is l im i t ed to coins. Other legal tender The do l lar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The currency of Panama is pegged to the dollar at the rate of B 1 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrear s O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on external trade No. n.a. n.a. No. No. No. Official payment arrears are ma in ta ined in the case of holders of nonrestructured bonds who canno t be iden t i f ied. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers requ i re a license if effected by residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, wh ich are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 713 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ iremen t s for imports Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for import s Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and /or tar i f fs PANAMA Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. For rice products, pork meat, poultry meat, and tomato paste and puree, a contingent mechanism exists that was negotiated under the WTO agreement to facilitate the exchange of permits, thereby a l low ing imports of these products at preferential tariff rates. All tariff rates are calculated on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. va lue of imports. Trade reform has resulted in simplified tariff bands of zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. The exceptions to the max imum tariff of 15% are automobiles (17%) and sugar (50% on imports exceeding a historical average price range). Also inc luded are several other products (ma in ly foodstuffs) whose tar iffs are the max imum (and dec l in ing) levels negotiated w i th the WTO, inc lud ing dairy products (90-173%); rice (130%); onions (90%); beef (40%); pork (70-90%); boneless and whole hams (83%); some pou l try (300%); cabbages, carrots, celery, and lettuce (32.5%); cooking oils (20-30%); margarine (20%); salt (87%); ketchup (70%); and tomato paste and puree (87%). All imports into the area designated as the colon free zone and the new ly established export processing zones are exempt from duties. State impo rt monopo ly No. Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requ irements Documentat ion requ irement s Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of certain drugs, firearms, and ammun i t ion are proh ib i ted or restricted. Any prod- uct ( in c lud in g raw materials and mach inery) may be imported in to the colon free zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported w i thout being subject to customs procedures . ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 715 Export taxes Other export taxes Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, p la t inum, manganese, other minerals, un re f ined sugar, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, an imal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain nontraditional exports (with a m in imum local cost-of-production content of 20%) are e l ig ib le for tax credit certificates equ iva lent to 20% of va lue added. Export processing zones are exempt from all taxes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirement s Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instrument s Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Papua New Gu inea is the Papua New Gu inea k ina. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange sub s idy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the k ina is determined freely in the interbank market in wh ich author- ized banks participate w i th the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) acting as broker. The commercial banks, the on ly authorized foreign exchange dealers, pub l ish rates for all cur- rent transactions w i th their customers w i th in a max imum spread of 2% between the buy ing and selling rates. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover w i th the commerc ial banks at marke t-de term ined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a p ruden t ial l im it on its uncovered forward position. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations At its d iscre t ion, the BPNG may in tervene in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Con tro ls on the use of domestic currency Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s t r a t i on of control In t e rn a t i on al security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual comm i tmen ts to persons residing outside Papua New Gu inea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. n.a. n.a. No. Foreign exchange control is adm in is tered by the BPNG under the Central Bank ing Act. Overall policy is de term ined by the government w i th the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated cons iderab le powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Gu inea, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Yes. No. The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in the ir respective m i n i ng agreements. For exports of a l l u v i al gold, specific export licenses are required from the BPNG. 716 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 717 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers w i s h i ng to take or send out domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins must obtain approval from the BPNG. Domestic coins issued for num i sma t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Foreign currency Overseas v is i to rs are free to take out any currency they b rought in and declared on a r r iva l. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts He ld domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency he ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Res ident bus iness en t i t ies are requ i red to ob ta in BPNG approva l, except for term deposits placed for a m i n i m um of 90 days. These accounts may be pe rm i t ted, but approval is requ i red. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is r equ i r ed, Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requirements for impor ts No. No. Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts for release of foreign exchange for imports Au tho r ized dealers may, w i t h o ut r e f e r r ing to the BPNG, approve app l ica t ions for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or l i c en s ing requ i remen t s. Au tho r ized dealers may make payments of up to K 5,000 upon presentation of commercial invoices. Payments in excess of K 5,000 requ i re a set of sh ipp ing documen ts and a copy of the customs forms, as we ll as comme rc ial invo ices. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative l ist Impor ts of a l im i ted n um b er of goods are restricted for reasons of hea l th and secur i ty, w h i le others are prohibited to protect domestic markets, inc lud ing sugar, pou l try, and pork. The impor ta t ion of most fresh f ru i ts and vegetables is banned (except for apples, on ions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special impo rt licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50% tar iff. Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs The impo rt ta r i ff reg ime consists of the f o l l ow i ng rates: (1) zero for essential i tems ( i n c l u d- ing food staples such as rice and meat not produced domes t ica l ly); (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods ( inc lud ing some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for intermediate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 PAPUA NEW GUINEA State import monopoly No. goods; (4) 55% for luxu ry goods; (5) 15% or 100% for selected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as t inned mackerel and c i t rus f ru i t s; and (6) 85% for sugar. Repatriation requirements The retention period of export proceeds is three mon ths. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. No. No. When exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the cond i t ions of the general au tho r i ty, they must apply to the BPNG for specific au thor iza t ion. Licenses are requ ired for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and ma r ine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued sub ject to m i n im um export price gu ide l ines. Although exports of unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except for those on fish (10%) and logs (15% to 70%). Export lev ies also apply to forestry products. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are restrictions on these payments, but approval is readily granted for most, pro- v ided that supporting documentation is subm i t ted. Au thor ized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equ iva lent of K 500,000 a year for all a d u lt i n d i v i d u a ls and corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of th is amoun t, except trade-related and debt-service payments, must be referred to the BPNG. For paymen ts or transfers exceeding the equ iva lent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is requ ired. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Investment-related payments There are no controls on payment for interest. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Payments for the servicing of foreign debt may be approved w i thout a fixed l im it by authorized dealers. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 719 Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange ea rn ings from any source w i thout the approval of the BPNG. Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Gu inea, or for its re ten t ion. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no controls on inwa rd po r t fo l io inves tmen t. Au tho r ized dealers may approve outward inves tmen ts by resident i n d i v i d u a ls and corporations up to the e q u i v a l e nt of K 500,000 a year; inves tment in excess of th is l im it requ ires the approval of the BPNG. Income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Gu inea as received. P r ior clearance from the tax au thor i t ies is requ i red for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 720 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Permission is required for these credits; however, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents other than businesses invo lved in the forestry sector or mineral resources exploration, without l im i ta t ion provided that the term is for not less than one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the BPNG. Repayment of principal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commencing on the date of disbursements. A max imum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstanding borrowing. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource explo- ration activities, inward investment is considered noninterest-bearing equity or loan funds ( inc lud ing preference shares) un t il the business is successful, at wh ich point any excess above the m i n im um equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be transferred, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Subject to presentation of commercial invoices for bona fide transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 23, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan guarani. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The authorities are managing their exchange rate policy in order to keep the va lue of the guarani roughly unchanged in real effective terms. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Payments between Paraguay and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) and other central banks participating in the multilateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. Yes. The CBP has the authority to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation w i th other agencies of the government. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the CBP, which is responsible for implementing its decisions. The CBP supervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. The CBP regulates open foreign exchange positions. No. No. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and indus tr ial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior authorization of the CBP. Payments for gold im- ports by indus tr ial users must be made through commercial banks. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 721 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 722 PARAGUAY Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection All products must be inspected. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of certain products that may be ha rm ful to pub l ic health, national security, or ani- mal or plant health are prohibited. However, these restrictions may be waived to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Paraguay, as a member of MERCOSUR, applies its GET, which is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay was allowed to exempt 399 items from the GET—these ex- emptions are to be phased out by 2006 by gradually raising tariff rates to 14% on most capital goods, and to 20% for telecommunications. Typical rates on goods exempt from the GET are zero for raw materials and intermediate goods; 5% for capital goods; 6% for items for tourism; 10% for consumer goods; 15% for vehicles whose c.i.f. va lue exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent; and 20% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $20,000. The GBP lev ies a commission of 0.125% on all import payments made under the LAI A Reciprocal Pay- ments Agreement. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 723 Documentat ion requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, raw hides, and w i ld an ima ls are pro- h ib i ted. Certain other exports requ i re pr ior authorization from the appropriate agency. No other exports are restricted, except with regard to technical standards imposed by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the M in is try of Industry and Commerce, the M in is t ry of Pub l ic Health, or the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock, depending on the product exported. Exports of wood and wood products of certain trees are subject to quotas because of r i sk of dep le t ion. The CBP lev ies a comm iss ion of 0.125% on all exports made under the LAI A Reciprocal Payments Agreement. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments There are restrictions on the transfer of profits. Prior approval On ly f inanc ial enterprises requ ire authorization of the CBP to transfer earnings. The gov- ernment may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges on proposed inves tmen ts that are d u ly registered and approved. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements No. Surrender requirements There are no surrender requ iremen ts for proceeds from inv i s ib le s, except for royalties and remune ra t ion from the b ina t ional entities adm in i s te r ing the I ta ipu and Yacyreta dams, wh ich are transferred in f u ll to the CBP for the account of the M in is t ry of Finance. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions Yes. No. Non res iden ts may purchase foreign exchange forward, up to one year, exc lus ive ly for op- erations relating to trade. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The Super in tendency of Banks must be in fo rmed of amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equ iva lent in comp l iance w i th money - launde r ing regulations. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital movements No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 724 PARAGUAY Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Permitted up to a specified proportion of paid-up capital. Maintenance of accounts abroad Subject to d ive rs i f ica t ion of depository banks and not to exceed 20% of the local bank 's net worth. This l im it can be extended up to 70% of the bank's net worth, under special conditions. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Perm i t ted up to 5% of the bank 's net worth and, subject to approval of a guarantee by the Supe r in tendency of Banks, up to 20%. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Reserves shou ld be constituted in foreign currency. The required ratios vary according to the ma tur i ty of deposits. The reserve requ i remen ts are 27% and 15% for foreign and do- mestic currencies, respectively. The l im i ts are specified in the bank ing leg is la t ion. Commercial banks may ma in ta in a da i ly foreign exchange overbought position not exceed- ing 30% of the ir effec t ive capital, exc lud ing government bonds denominated in dollars; credit balances in foreign currency of more than one-year ma tur i ty for agr icu l ture and live- stock, indus tr ial and small- and medium-size f irms; and home and professional service equ ipment purchases. The da i ly fore ign exchange overbought position may not exceed 100% in cases where a bank does not inc lude w i th in its effective capital the above exc luded items. The da i ly oversold position may not exceed 75% of effective capital. Banks' over- bought and oversold positions may not exceed 5% of the ir capital. In fo rmu l a t ing th is posi- t ion, all fore ign exchange components should be inc luded. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Peru is the Pe ruv ian nu evo sol. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Independen t ly floatin g Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription o f currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined free ly by supply and demand. Cross rates w i th nondo l lar currenc ies are determined against the do l lar. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Peru and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i t h each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) and the other central banks concerned w i t h in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. C lear ing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control By law, there are no restrictions on any exchange transactions, inc lud ing holding, using, purchasing, or selling foreign exchange. Internat ional securit y restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Outstanding arrears are due pr imar i ly to unguaranteed suppliers not participating in the Brady Plans. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts 725 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 PERU Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures No. No. No. Negative l ist Imports may be p roh ib i ted for social, health, or secur i ty reasons. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Tariff rates average 13.4%. A 12% rate is applied to about 84% of import items, and the rema in ing products are subject to a 20% rate. Imports subject to trade agreements are not subject to these tar iffs. A temporary surcharge of 10% is applied to some ag r icu l tu ral and agro-industrial goods. A temporary surcharge of 5% is applied to 56 items of meat and its derivatives (prior to January 30, 2000, this surcharge was 10%). Raw materials and inter- mediate goods imported under the Temporary Adm iss ion Regime are exempt from import duties. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 727 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Credits granted by resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and to i n d i v i d u a ls or enterprises (residents or nonresidents) are subject to pruden t ial l im i ts. D i f fe ren t ial treatmen t of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements As a measure of monetary control, there is a difference between the treatment of deposit accounts in domestic currency and deposit accounts in foreign currency, but there is no discrimination between residents and nonresidents. The deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 20%. The CRBP remunerates the part of the reserve requirement that exceeds the obligatory m in imal reserve requirement in foreign currency with the three-month LIBOR rate m inus 0.125%. Effective September 1, 2000, the average reserve requirement on foreign exchange deposits was reduced by three percentage points, and the obligatory m in imal reserve requ irement was lowered to 6% from 7%. Liquid asset requirements As a measure of p ruden t ial regulations, a l i q u id asset requ i rement as a percentage of short- term l iab i l i t ie s (20% in foreign currency and 8% in domestic cu r rency) is used. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On nonresident assets and liabilities Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad There is a pruden t ial l im it of 100% of the net worth over the long foreign exchange posi- t ion and a l im it of 2.5% over the short foreign exchange position of the f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion. The secur i t ie s market in Peru is open to fore ign investors. No legal restrictions exist on the purchase or sale of domestic securities by nonresidents, or on the purchase or sale of fo re ign secur i t ies by residents. Revenues may be repatriated w i thout res tr ic t ions. The law allows pension funds to invest up to 10% of the ir portfolio in foreign securities. The law a l lows pension f u n ds to invest up to 10% of the ir por tfo l io in foreign secur i t ies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 728 PERU Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Changes During 2000 January 30. The temporary surcharge levied on 56 items of meat and its derivatives was lowered to 5% from 10%. September 1. The average reserve requ i rement on foreign exchange deposits was reduced by three percentage points and the obligatory m i n im al reserve requ irement was lowered to 6% from 7%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Philippines is the Ph i l ipp ine peso. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the fore ign exchange market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng P i l ip inas (BSP) acts to l im it sharp f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate and intervenes when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the ex- change market. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Ph i l ipp ine Deal- ing System (PDS), an electronic screen-based network. The PDS allows trading between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. daily among Bankers Association of the Ph i l ipp ines member banks and the BSP. The system links participants through an electronic screen-based network of sharing informa t ion and undertaking transactions. The exchange rate of the peso vis-a-vis the do l lar at the beg inn ing of the trad ing day represents the weighted average of all transac- tions in the PDS du r ing the preceding day. The amount of foreign exchange that may be sold (over-the-counter) without documentation and prior BSP approval is the equivalent of $10,000. No. No. All forward transactions to purchase or renew foreign exchange from nonresidents— inc lud ing offshore banking units —require prior clearance by the BSP. All forward con- tracts to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents ( in c lud ing offshore bank ing un i ts) w i th no f u ll de l ive ry of pr inc ipa l, inc lud ing cancellations, rollovers, and renewals thereof, requ i re pr ior clearance by the BSP. Only banks w i th an expanded derivatives license may enter into transactions covered by nondeliverable forward contracts. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There is no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all foreign exchange proceeds from exports and inv is ib les must be obtained in the fo l low ing accep- table currencies : Aus tra l ian dollars, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, B runei dollars, Canadian dollars, euros, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Kuwa i ti dinars, Malays- ian ringgit, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U .A .E . d irhams, U.S. dollars, yen, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the BSP. Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, provided that the BSP is not asked to in te rvene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. The use of domestic currency for international payments and receipts is not allowed, except for imports from and exports to ASEAN countries. Yes. 729 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 730 PHILIPPINES For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents There are no restrictions unless the transaction invo lves the purchase of fore ign exchange from the bank ing system. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative The BSP entered into a paymen ts agreement w i th Bank Negara Malaysia. Payments are stipulated in dollars. A bilateral payments agreement is in force w i th the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina —Hong Kong SAR since 1998. The agreement was conc luded for one year and has been renewed several times since. The agreement is, at present, va l id u n t il May 20, 2001. Commercial banks accredited by the BSP are the authorized channel for transactions w i t h in the frame- work of the agreement. Regional arrangements The Philippines is a member of the ASEAN. Adm in is tra t ion of control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of po l icy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency No. No. Small-scale m ine rs are requ ired to sell all of the ir produc t ion to the BSP. All fo rms or types of gold may be bought and sold w i thout specific approval of the BSP. Producers s e l l ing gold to the BSP are paid in pesos on the basis of the latest London f i x i ng price and the pre- va i l ing peso-dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of the official international reserves. The BSP may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jew- elry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application or to banks on ly for resale to jewe lry manu fac tu re rs and indus t r ial users, at the BSP's go ld-se l l ing price p l us a service fee to cover costs, in c lud ing the costs of conversion and packaging. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except gold coin b lanks and gold b u l l i on without any ind ica t ion of the actual fineness of the gold content. Impor ts of these items are prohibited. Resident and nonres ident travelers must obtain pr ior authorization from the BSP to take out more than PI 0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. Travelers may export freely any amount of foreign currency, prov ided the ir source is not the banking system. Nonresident tourists and emigrants may purchase foreign exchange from the banking system only up to the amount of foreign exchange that they previously sold to the bank ing system. No proof of prev ious sale is needed for such departing nonres i- dents to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos up to a m a x im um of $200 or an equ iv a l ent amount in other foreign currency. Travelers may b r ing in freely up to PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. The impor ta t ion exceeding that amount requ ires p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the BSP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 731 Foreign currency Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly any am o u nt of fore ign cu r r en cy. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n .a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Non res ident peso deposit accounts are allowed, p rov ided they are funded from fo re ign currency inwar d rem i t tance or from peso income f rom, or proceeds of the conve rs ion of, nonres iden ts' properties located in the Ph i l ipp ines, whe ther real or personal. Conversion of domestic currency accounts is allowed only up to the equivalent amount of foreign exchange remitted to the Ph i l ipp ines as we ll as to the equivalent amount of peso income earned by nonresidents, provided the investment was made in a peso t ime deposit w i th a maturity of at least 90 days and was registered w i th the BSP. Effective January 26, 2000, in order for the f u n ds to be converted into fore ign currency for repatriation abroad, inves tmen ts in bank deposits must be in pesos, must have a ma tu r i ty of at least 90 days, and mus t be registered w i th the BSP. Deposits arising from other investments, such as stocks and gove rnment securities, are not subject to the 90-day ho ld ing period. The BSP registration documen t, w h i ch is issued d i rec t ly by the BSP for such investments, w i ll be canceled i f the inve s tmen ts are te rm ina ted before the end of the 90-day period. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requ irement s for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for payments of imports under LCs, docu- ments against acceptance (DAs), documents against payments (DPs), open account ar- rangements (OAs), and direct remittances. Registration of DA and OA imports w i th the BSP is needed on ly if payments are to be made from the bank ing system. Payments of DA and OA obligations whose ma tur i t ies have exceeded 360 days from the date of the draft acceptance, in the case of DAs, or the date of the b i ll of lad ing, in the case of OAs, are subject to approval by the BSP. Under the Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection was requ ired for imports valued at more than $500 from all countries. Imports declared in the sh ipp ing documents as off-quality, used, secondhand, scraps, offgrade, or a s im i lar term ind ica t ing tha t the article was not new are subject to CISS inspection even if the va lue of the imports is less than $500. Effective Ap r il 1, 2000, preshipment inspection is no longer required for imports; rather, improved and strengthened customs mon i to r ing and inspection of the sh ipm ent a r r iv al are now in force. LCs mus t be opened on or before the date of sh ipment w i th a va l id i ty period of up to one year. On ly one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendmen ts to such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative l ist Open general licenses PHILIPPINES an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval except when the amend- ment extends the total va l id i ty of the LC beyond one year. Senior bank officers responsible for the sale of foreign exchange certify that, in cases other than LCs, DPs, DAs, or OAs, the original documents have been presented and that the bank has taken measures to ensure that the applicant/importer has not purchased foreign ex- change from the banking system in excess of the amount of the importation as indicated in the invoice. Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. Imports into the Ph i l ip- pines are allowed without restrictions, unless otherwise prohibited by existing laws or rules or otherwise subject to the requirements of prior approval by the appropriate government agencies/committees responsible for imp lemen t ing the legislation regulating imports. Yes. The impo r ta t ion of certain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of p u b l ic hea l th and safety, na t ional security, in terna t ional comm i tmen ts, and deve lopment and ra t iona l iza- t ion of local industries. Commod i ty imports are classified in to three categories: freely importable, regulated, and p roh ib i ted. To import regulated products, a clearance or pe rm it is requ ired from the appro- pr ia te gove rnment agency ( i n c l u d i ng the BSP). Licenses with quotas Quan t i ta t ive restrictions are imposed on the imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import tariff structure consists of four rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on im- ported capital goods are 3% and 10%, w i th the former applying to goods w i thout domestic substitutes. Deviations from the standard rates inc lude (1) up to double the applicable standard rate for imports of f inal goods in industries that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Inves tment (BOI), and imports of agr icu l tural products for wh ich quan t i ta t ive restrictions are being removed under the WTO agreement; and (2) du ty exemptions for certain imported capital goods registered w i th the BOI prior to January 1, 1995, or subject to provisions of the Export Development Act. Some 300 products are du ty exempt, as are imports of machinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts used in export manufac tur ing. New ly registered firms may only obtain duty reductions on eligible im- ports up to 3%. Tariff rates in the textile and apparel sectors are 3% for inputs and 20% for f inal products. BOI cer t if ica t ion is requ ired at the t ime an LC is opened to q u a l i fy for the preferen t ial rate of 3% for imports of wire rod. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements No. Financing requirements Payments for exports may be made in acceptable currencies in the fo l low ing forms without prior BSP approval: LCs, DPs, DAs, OAs, intercompany open account offsets, consign- ments, and export advances. Documentation requirements All exports must be covered by an export declaration issued by the Department of Trade and Industry du ly prepared by the exporter. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Regulated exports requ ire a prior export pe rm it from the relevant government agencies. These pertain to a few export items —mostly garments and textiles, endangered w i l d l i fe species, l ive animals, and other items regulated for national interest, security, or health reasons. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 733 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The amount of foreign exchange an authorized agent bank may sell to residents for any nontrade purpose, w i thout need of appropriate documentation, is $10,000 or the equ iva len t. Consequently, for sales of foreign exchange exceeding $10,000 or the equ iva len t, the au- thorized agent's bank requires a w r i t ten notarized application and supporting documents from the purchaser. Effective October 31, 2000, corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading that are subsidiaries or affiliates of banks, quasi-banks, or nonbank financial inter- mediaries may not sell foreign exchange to nonresidents and are subject to the same ru les as banks regarding the ir trad ing activities. Such corporations are prohibited from se l l ing foreign exchange to pay obligations to residents other than banks or to deposit the fore ign exchange in a foreign currency deposit un it account. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval The BSP regulates foreign currency loans to ensure that interest and pr inc ipal owed to creditors can be serviced in an orderly manner and w i th due regard to the economy's over- all debt-servicing capacity. Pursuant to the Philippines Constitution, all pub l ic and private sector pub l ic ly guaranteed obligations from foreign creditors, inc lud ing offshore bank ing un i ts and foreign currency deposit un i ts, are referred to the BSP for p r ior approval. Other private sector loans from these creditors and other financing schemes/arrangements require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are to be serviced using foreign ex- change purchased from the banking system. Foreign currency borrowings from foreign currency deposit un i ts (FCDUs) w i th a ma tu r i ty exceeding one year are governed by the same gu id e l in e s. In the case of short-term FCDU loans, i n c l u d i ng those obtained by the private sector, no prior BSP approval is required, provided the borrower/project qua l i f ies for foreign financing. Service payments relating to foreign loans effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has p rev ious ly been registered w i th the BSP or are specifically authorized by the BSP to purchase foreign exchange from the bank ing system. Unregistered loans may be serviced w i th foreign exchange sourced from outside the banking system. Quantitative limits The ceiling is set yearly and is approved by the Monetary Board of the BSP. Indicative limit s/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limit s/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limit s/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Indicative limit s/bona fide test Cred it card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative Urn it s/bona fide test Other paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 734 PHILIPPINES Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions E f fec t ive January 26, 2000, inward inves tmen ts need not be registered w i th the BSP. However, on ly BSP-registered foreign loans and foreign inves tmen ts may be serviced or paid back w i th foreign exchange purchased from the bank ing system. Effective October 31, 2000, corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading that are sub- sidiaries or aff i l ia tes of banks, quasi-banks, or nonbank f inanc ial in termed iar ies may not sell foreign exchange to nonresidents and are subject to the same ru les as banks regarding their trading activities. Such corporations are prohibited from selling foreign exchange to pay obligations to residents other than banks or to deposit the foreign exchange in a foreign currency deposi t u n it account. Effective January 26, 2000, foreign investors must hold peso t ime deposits for a m i n im um of 90 days and register this with the BSP to be able to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system for capital repatriation/outward remittance of earnings. However, the 90- day time deposit may be preterminated and invested in other eligible instruments to enable the investor to remit the proceeds thereof at any time, using foreign exchange from the bank ing system. There is no m i n im um ho ld ing period for all other types of eligible investments, such as equities, government securities, or commercial papers. Divestment of sales proceeds of registered foreign investments, except for preterminated 90-day t ime deposits, may be de- posited w i th any bank in any deposit account, with f u ll repatriation privileges in accordance w i th existing rules. In the event of early withdrawal, the BSP w i ll cancel the registration document that is necessary for the repatriation of fund s. Yes. Yes. As a general ru le, registration with the BSP or designated custodian bank is not mandatory. Registration is necessary only if the source of the foreign exchange needed for capital repa- triation and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the banking system. Sale or issue of securities in the Ph i l ipp ines is allowed only after the proper license to do business in the country is secured by the nonresident from the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issuance does not invo lve the purchase of foreign exchange from the bank ing system. Residents may invest abroad w i t h o ut p r ior approval and subsequent reg is tra t ion of t h e ir inves tmen ts w i th the BSP on ly if (1) the inves tmen ts are funded by w i thd rawa ls from FCDUs; (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to authorized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the b ank ing system but in amounts of less than $6 m i l l ion or the equivalent for an investor a year. For amounts above that, prior approval and registration w i th the BSP is required. Outward investments of domestic banks, however, are required to be registered w i th the BSP regardless of the amoun t. Reg is t ra t ion w i th the BSP or a designated custodian bank may be made at the op t ion of the inves tor. I n a d d i t i o n, proceeds of sales of i n t e r n a t i o n al a l loca t ions of i n i t i al p u b l ic o f f e r ings (IPOs) and shares of domes t ic compan ies l is ted in fore ign stock exchanges mu st also be reported to the BSP w i t h in f ive days from receipt and remitted to the coun t ry. The serv ic ing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 735 or transfer of funds pertaining to registered investments us ing fore ign exchange from the banking system in this category is allowed without BSP approval. Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the BSP is necessary only if the fore ign exchange needed for capital repa- t r ia t ion and remittance of d iv idends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the banking system. These transactions are allowed only after the proper license to do business in the coun try is secured from the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issuance does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system. Purchase abroad by residents For amounts above the equivalent of $6 m i l l ion, for which the source is the banking sys- tem, prior approval and registration by the BSP is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior approval by the BSP if principal and interest amorti- zation are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system or guaranteed by pub l ic sector entities or local banks. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior BSP approval is required. Only banks and nonbank f inanc ial intermediaries perform- ing quasi-banking func t ions and their affiliates/subsidiaries du ly authorized by the BSP are allowed to deal in der iva t ive transactions. All forward contracts to sell fore ign exchange to nonresidents ( inc lud ing offshore bank ing units) with no f u ll delivery of principal, inc lud ing cancellations or rollovers/renewals thereof, are to be submitted for prior clearance to the BSP. Yes. Yes. Yes. Loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs and offshore sources and nonresi- dent loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer requ i re pr ior BSP approval, except if said loans are guaranteed by the pub l ic sector or by local banks. Prior BSP approval and registration are requ ired for short-term trade-related fore ign loans by nonbank residents, wh ich are guaranteed by the p u b l ic sector or by local banks. For those not covered by such guarantees, prior authority to incur the obligation is not required. They are still, however, subject to the registration requirement for debt servicing us ing foreign exchange from the banking system. Loans of nonresidents from expanded foreign currency deposit units (EFCDUs), irrespec- tive of maturity, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us- ing foreign exchange purchased from outside the banking system; and (2) all applicable bank ing ru les and regulations are complied w i th, in c lud ing the single borrower's l im i t, wh ich is def ined to inc lude lendings and guarantees issued to companies, the ir subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stockholders all over the world. Credits require prior BSP approval. The usual controls on outward remittances and registra- tion requirements apply. Loans of nonresidents from EFCDUs, irrespective of maturity, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us ing foreign exchange purchased from outside the bank ing system; and (2) all applicable bank ing ru les and regula- t ions are comp l ied w i th, in c l ud i ng the s ing le borrower's l im i t, wh ich is de f ined to i n c l u de ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 736 PHILIPPINES To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment lendings and guarantees issued to companies, their subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stock- holders all over the world. As a general rule, all foreign loans contracted by nonbank residents with guarantees from the public sector or from local commercial banks require prior BSP approval or registra- tion. Those not covered by such guarantees likewise generally require prior BSP approval and registration to make them eligible for subsequent debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs/offshore sources and nonresident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer require prior BSP approval. Guarantees for the account of the public sector, as well as those issued by government- owned and -controlled corporations in favor of nonresidents, require prior BSP approval. Specific guarantees for the account of the private sector covering foreign obligations other than foreign loans do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for regis- tration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing using foreign exchange purchase from the banking system. Guarantees issued by foreign banks and financial institutions to secure obligations of resi- dents involved in foreign lending operations require prior BSP approval. Those issued to secure authorized peso loans or FCDU loans, as well as foreign obligations (which do not involve foreign lending) of local firms, do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing using foreign exchange to be purchased from the banking system in the event of a default by the principal debtor. An applicant's income tax return is required to be submitted to support an application to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system not to exceed the equivalent of $6 m i l l ion an investor a year for outward investment without prior BSP approval. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment As a general rule, BSP-registered foreign investments enjoy f u ll and immediate repatriation of capital and remittance of profits, dividends, and other earnings. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Ownership of land by nonresidents, as we ll as the exploration, development, and u t i l iz- ation of natural resources, is limited to 40% equity and is subject to the provisions of the Philippines Constitution. This is allowed, subject to legal and constitutional limits. If the sales proceeds are to be repatriated abroad using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, the transac- tion must be registered with the BSP as a foreign investment. No private land may be transferred or conveyed except to individuals, corporations, or associations qualified to acquire or hold land of the public domain. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Effective June 20, 2000, banks with foreign exchange trading corporations as subsidiaries or affiliates must make available on a daily basis the names of counterparties and other details of purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks authorized to operate only under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may borrow with short-term maturities from other FCDUs, nonresidents, and off- shore banking units, subject to existing rules on foreign borrowings. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the fo l low ing modes of payment without prior BSP approval: (1) LCs; (2) DPs or cash against payment; (3) DAs; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 737 (4) OAs; (5) intercompany open account offsets; (6) consignments; and (7) export ad- vances. Commercial banks, which are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system, may grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents, irrespective of ma tur i ty, w i thout prior approval of the BSP, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us ing foreign exchange purchased from outside the banking system; and (2) all applicable bank- ing rules and regulations are complied with, including all limits of lending to a single bor- rower, wh ich are defined to inc lude lendings and guarantees issued to companies, the ir subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stockholders all over the world. Banks, including thr ift banks, that are authorized to operate FCDUs may grant only short- term foreign currency loans, with BSP authorization. The fo l low ing foreign currency loans may be granted by FCDUs of commercial banks w i thout pr ior BSP approval: (1) private sector loans, if they are to be serviced us ing foreign exchange to be obtained outside the banking system; (2) short-term loans to financial insti- tutions for normal interbank transactions; (3) short-term loans to commodity and service exporters, and producers/manufacturers, provided that the loan proceeds are to be used to finance the import costs of goods and services necessary in the production of goods. In the case of exporters, FCDU loans may also be used to finance the import cost of goods and services in local currency. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange An EFCDU of commercial banks may invest in foreign currency-denominated securities. An FCDU of a th r i ft bank may only invest in foreign currency-denominated debt instru- ments that are of short-term maturity and readily marketable. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits The reserve requ i rement applied to local currency is 16%. The reserve requ irement applies only to peso deposits and deposit substitute liabilities and not to foreign deposit accounts. Depositary banks under FCDU and EFCDU must maintain at all times 100% cover for their foreign currency liabilities. At least 30% of the cover requirement for foreign currency liabilities must be in the form of l iqu id assets. Effec t ive June 14, 2000, foreign ownership of domestic banks was allowed up to 100% (previously 60%). Foreign individuals and private persons may own 40%. However, banks that are majority foreign-owned may not account for more than 30% of the total reserves of the banking system. For FCDUs of commercial banks and expanded commercial banks, at least 70% of the cover must be maintained in the same currency of the liability and up to 30% may be de- nominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. FCDUs of th r i ft banks must maintain the foreign currency cover in the same currency as that of the corresponding foreign currency deposit l i a b i l i t y. The l im it set on a bank's long (overbought) foreign exchange positions may not exceed 5% of their un impa ired capital or the equivalent of $10 million, whichever is lower; no l im it is set on short (oversold) foreign exchange positions. Any excess beyond the overbought l im it must be settled da i ly. The BSP sanctions the violation of open position limits. No differential treatment is ascribed to resident and nonresident deposit accounts w i th respect to liquid asset requirement, as all depository banks under the foreign currency deposit system are required to maintain at all times a 100% asset cover for the ir foreign currency liabilities, of wh ich 30% must be liquid. Effective November 11, 2000, foreign exchange trading corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading activities that are not subsidiaries of banks have to report mon th ly their purchases, sales, and daily foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad Except as may be authorized by the Monetary Board, total equity investments in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by any inves tment house w i th quasi-banking func t ions may not at any time exceed 15% of its net worth. Outward investments by residents in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 738 PHILIPPINES Other controls imposed by securities laws amoun ts exceeding $6 m i l l i on or the e q u i v a l e nt requ ire pr ior approval and reg is tra t ion by the BSP. For amounts not exceeding that amount, the funds to be invested may be purchased from authorized agent banks, subject to BSP documentary requirements. As a general rule, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the p u b l ic w i t h in the country unless such securities have been registered and permitted to be sold by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). A foreign corporation whose secur i t ies are l is ted and traded in a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Ph i l ipp ines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesman must register w i th the SEC to do business in the coun try. Changes During 2000 Nonresident accounts January 26. In order for funds to be converted in to foreign currency for repatriation abroad, inves tmen ts in bank deposits must be in pesos, must have a m a tu r i ty of at least 90 days, and must be registered with the BSP. Imports and import payments April 1. The preshipment inspection requirement was abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers October 31. Foreign exchange trading corporations may not sell foreign exchange to nonresidents. Capital transactions January 26. Inward foreign investment need not be registered w i th the BSP. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 14. Foreign bank ownership of domestic banks was allowed up to 100% (prev ious ly 60%) and foreign ind iv idua ls and private persons were allowed to own 40%. However, banks that are ma jor i ty foreign-owned may not account for more than 30% of the total reserves of the banking system. June 20. Banks with foreign exchange trading corporations as subsidiaries or aff i l ia tes were required to make available on a daily basis the names of counterparties and other details of purchases and sales of foreign exchange. November 11. Corporations that are not subsidiaries of banks had to report mon th ly the ir purchases, sales, and da i ly foreign exchange positions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Cur**ncy The currency of Poland is the Polish zloty. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating Un t il Ap r il 12, 2000, the central exchange rate of the zloty was pegged to a basket of two currencies, comprising the euro (55%) and the dollar (45%). The exchange rate of the zloty fluctuated w i th in a band of ±15% around the central parity. E f fec t ive Ap r il 12, 2000, the zloty was allowed to float and trade freely against all currencies. Thus, the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market A l iqu id swap market exists. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. n.a. n.a. There are agreements w i th Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey. Out- standing balances are being settled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Poland is a member of the CEFTA. There are inopera t ive agreements w i th members of the former CMEA. The authority to make basic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests w i th par l iamen t. Regulations are promulgated by the MOF, in cooperation with the president of the National Bank of Poland (NBP). Ind iv idual permits are granted by the president of the NBP. Deci- sions concerning ind iv idu al foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Adm in i s t ra t ive Court. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the NBP, fore ign exchange banks, border guards, custom authorization authorities, and post offices. In compliance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, Poland imposed and ma in ta ined a ban on trade w i th Iraq and on exports of certain products to Libya. The Polish government bans, in l ine w i th re levant UN Security Counc il resolutions, exports of arms and m i l i ta ry equip- ment to the fo l low ing countries: Angola (for UNITA forces), Haiti, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, and Somalia. Restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were l if ted on November 30, 2000. 739 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 740 POLAND In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Resident ind iv idua ls may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewe l ry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. Controls on external trade Foreign exchange regulations restrict trading in gold and the exportation of gold coins (money coined after 1850). However, the exportation of gold coins issued by the NBP is permitted. Coins made from precious metals are not legal tender in Poland. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The exportation of foreign or domestic currency with a total value exceeding the equ iva lent of €20,000 requires permission. Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of €5,000 in any currency w i thout documentary proof of origin. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange w i th in two months of returning to Poland. Under the general foreign exchange permit, Polish nationals may take abroad up to €6,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this l im i t. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange w i t h in two mon ths of re tu rn ing to Poland. For off ic ial and business travel, allowances are based on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Imports of domestic or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €5,000 should be reported to the customs administration authorities. Residents and nonresidents may import up to the equ iva lent of €5,000 in any currency w i thout documentary proof of origin. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange w i t h in two months of returning to Poland. Foreign currency Residents must repatriate foreign exchange w i th in two months after returning to Poland. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Residents ( ind iv idua ls and enterprises) carrying out economic activities abroad may ho ld foreign exchange accounts abroad to cover the costs of such activities du r ing the ir stay abroad. The NBP must be notified of accounts opened abroad, and quarterly balances in these accounts must be reported to the NBP. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 741 Domestic currency accounts These accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on an agreement with the bank, and they may be credited with funds from any source that is in compliance w i th foreign exchange regulations. Conversion into foreign currency and/or transfer abroad of term de- posits with a ma tur i ty of less than three mon ths and for amounts exceeding Zl 500,000, however, is prohibited. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment; alcoholic beverages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from bituminous minerals; gasoline and light oils; natural gas and other gaseous hydrocarbons; coal; and goods for indus t r ial assembly of motor vehicles. Importation of the fo l low ing is prohibited: passenger cars and other passenger vehicles older than 10 years; trucks, vans, other u t i l i ty cars, and passenger vehicles older than three years for transportation of more than 10 persons; cars with two-cycle engines; and comb ine harvesters. The importation of petroleum oils and oils obtained from b i tum inous minerals is subject to quantitative quotas. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. Import tariffs are based on the Harmonized System and the Com- bined Nomenclature of the EU, with six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, m ine ral resources , textiles, and cattle hides; up to 3% on other raw materials; 6% to 9% on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 12% to 25% on industrial goods; 25% to 30% on agriculture and textile products; and 30% on luxu ry goods. Imports from develop- ing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 45 de- veloping countries, tropical products, and many goods that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland duty-free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Duties and taxes on imports for export production are re- funded. Import s of capital goods for new jo int ventures are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds shou ld be repatriated immediately. Exports and Export Proceeds F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are required for exports carried out w i th in the framework of in terna t ional agree- ments that s t ipu la te bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing motor vehicles. Licenses are requ ired for exports of radioactive materials and m i l i ta ry equ ipmen t, as well as for goods subject to export quotas. Exports of specific species of l ive poultry are prohibited . ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 742 W i th quotas Export taxes POLAND Exports of waste and scrap of copper, nickel, a lum inum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers When payments exceed €20,000, all current operations must be effected through domestic banks. Residents and nonresidents must document the payments or transfers to the bank if these exceed €20,000. Credit card use abroad Credit card use abroad is permitted, but the transactions must comply w i th regulations. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated immed ia te ly. Na tu ral persons rece iv ing proceeds w h i le they are abroad must repatriate these proceeds w i t h in two mon ths after r e tu rn ing to Po land. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of Polish securities by nonresidents may be effected freely, except for shares that may be subject to Poland's restrictions on foreign direct investment. Purchases by non- residents of securities with a maturity of less than one year requ ire a pe rm i t. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permit is required for pub l ic ly traded securities. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents A foreign exchange perm it is required for residents to make po r t fo l io investments in securi- ties issued by nonresidents not domiciled or headquartered in OECD countries or in coun- tries that have no mu tual investment promotion or mu tu al protection agreements w i th Po- land. Th i s regulation jdoes not apply when residents acqu ire securities w i t h o ut paying. Residents need a foreign exchange pe rm it to purchase securities w i th a m a tu r i ty of less than on e year. Residents are permitted to sell securities on ly in OECD countries or in the coun tr ies w i th wh ich Poland has concluded agreements on the mu tu al promotion and protection of inves tmen ts. Resident s need a fore ign exchange perm it to sell or issue secur i t ies w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than one year. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NBP approva l is requ ired, except for transactions carried out by the treasury, au tho r ized banks, and other authorized f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBP approva l and SEC notification are requ ired. Purchase abroad by residents NBP approval is required, except for transactions carried out by authorized banks and other authorized financia l institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 743 Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is required for maturities of less than one year. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents F inanc ial de r iva t ive ins t rumen ts listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, the Po l ish F inanc ial Stock S.A., and CeTO S.A. may be traded freely. Authorized banks and other au thor ized f inanc ial institutions may carry out these operations freely. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Authorized ins t i tu t ions may effect these transactions f ree ly. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits The NBP must be no t if ied w i th in 20 days. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits Financial credits w i th maturities of less than one year requ ire a permit. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credit operations carried out by domestic banks w i th non res iden ts that resu lt in a zloty debt with a maturity of less than one year are prohibited if the transaction exceeds the equivalent of €50,000. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for guarantee transactions related to c la ims resulting from restricted foreign exchange transactions. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents An NBP foreign exchange perm it is required for direct investments, w i th the exception of the purchase of shares and interests in companies based in OECD countries and in the countries w i th wh ich Poland has ratified agreements on the mu tual promo t ion and protec- tion of investments. The foreign exchange law does not impose controls on these transactions but does contain sectoral restrictions. The transfer of prof i ts from jo int ven tures and from shares in Polish companies is not re- stricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are discharged. An NBP foreign exchange pe rm it is requ i red when na tu ral persons res id ing in Poland purchase real estate located abroad if the purchase price is in excess of the equ iva lent of €50,000. An exchange permit is also required for the transfer abroad of the foreign currency used for the purchase of such real estate. Nonresidents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland on ly w i th perm iss ion from the M in is t ry of the Interior, except when in the form of an inhe r i tance. U n d er the Law on A cqu i s i t ion of Real Estate by Foreigners, fo re igne rs may also a cqu i re ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 744 POLAND real estate w i thout a perm it if (1) it is a separate apartment; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least f ive years after ob ta in ing a permanent residence visa; (3) they have been mar- ried to a Polish citizen for at least two years (the purchased real estate must constitute a part of matrimonial community property); or (4) real estate is purchased by nonresident juridical persons for statutory purposes, and the area of real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban areas. The Council of Ministers may issue a regulation de f in ing other cases where a perm it is not required, provided that the area of acquired real estate does not ex- ceed 4,000 square meters in urban and 10,000 square meters in rural areas. The Council of Ministers may also extend the area to be acquired w i thout permit to 12,000 square meters in urban and 30,000 square meters in rural areas. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans There are no controls on f am i ly loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBP approval is needed for gifts above the equivalent of €10,000. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Yes. Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specifi c to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad There are controls on short-term borrowing. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits ) Banks are permitted to purchase securities abroad w i th in the l im i ts specified in the regula- t ion o f the president of the NBP on the types of securities issued abroad to be purchased by authorized banks. D i f fe ren t ial treatmen t of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks are not allowed to hold for nonresidents zloty-denominated time deposit accounts with a maturity of less than three months for amounts exceeding Zl 500,000. Reserve requirements The reserve requirement on foreign currency accounts d iffers from that on zloty accounts. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t i on al investors A foreign exchange perm it is required for deposits made by nonresidents exceeding Zl 500,000 and maturing in less than three months, and for foreign currency deposits made by residents, except for those related to direct or portfolio investments, wh ich requ ire no foreign exchange permits, or for those made from bank accounts ma in ta ined by ind iv idua l s wh i le residing abroad. A bank 's open (net) foreign currency position (long or short) in relation to a s ing le foreign currency may not exceed 15% of the bank's capital. The president of the NBP, on the bank's request, may consent to foreign currency paid for equity to be included in the com- putation o f the bank's foreign currency position. An MOF perm it is requ ired to commence insurance business. An MOF perm it is also re- qu i red for inves tmen ts by nonresidents in the shares of insurance companies, a l low ing for 25%, 50%, and 75% control of votes at general shareholders' meetings. Prudential regula- tions establishing limits for the investment of insurance funds in the country and abroad are prov ided by the act on insurance operating activity. Effec t ive February 18, 2000, open pension funds are allowed to place no more than 5% of the ir assets abroad in OECD countries or in countries w i th wh ich Poland has ratified agreements on the mu tual promotion and protection of investments. The rema in ing 95% must be invested locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors POLAND 745 Insurance companies are obliged to comply with general legal guidelines. No. Changes During 2000 April 12. The zloty was allowed to float and trade freely against all currencies. The exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. November 30. Restrictions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l i f ted. February 18. Open pension funds were allowed to place no more than 5% of their assets abroad in OECD countries or in countries with which Poland has ratified agreements on the mutual promotion and protection of investments. The remaining 95% must be invested locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender re- ma ins the Portuguese escudo un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Portuguese escudo and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender .Portugal participates in a currency union (EMU) comprising 12 members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Internal conversion rates in re- spect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Portuguese escudo is set at Esc 200.482 per €1. The ECB has the right to in tervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Operations in foreign exchange are permitted against Portuguese legal tender or through banking accounts. Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions In compliance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions and EU regulations, certain restric- tions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), and the UNITA movement in Angola. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l i f ted on November 14, 2000. Special caution is rec- ommended to countries with counterparties located in countries or territories not cooperat- ing in efforts to prevent money laundering. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 m i l l ion. 746 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 747 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and trav- e ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of Esc 2.5 m i l l i on must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, sanctions are imposed on specific transactions involving diamonds (Sierra Leone and the UNITA movement in Angola), armaments (the UNITA movement in Angola, Kosovar Serbs, Iraq, and the Taliban of the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan), and oil (Iraq and the UNITA movement in Angola). Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under spec if ic conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, pub l ic order, or the prevention of com- mercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be requ ired. A few indus t r ial products, such as steel products and some textiles and c lo th ing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in certain th ird countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to Ch ina includes some textiles and a small number of f in ished products. Products of dual use may requ ire a certificate. Imports subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions requ i re an import license. Gene ra l ly, licenses are va l id for six months for customs clearance purposes. For products under EU su rve i l lance, the appropriate import documents, when requ i red, are issued for statistical purposes and are granted automatically in four or f ive days. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs State import monopo ly Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 748 PORTUGAL Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ irements F in an c ing requ irements Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes For ag r icu l tu ral products covered by the CAP, an export certificate may be requ i red. Products of dual use may require a certificate. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap i tal transact ions Yes. Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents If the purchase is made locally through a pub l ic takeover bid, it is subject to a p re l im ina ry announcement to, as we ll as registration with, the Stock Market Committee (CMVM). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents If the sale occurs in Portugal through a public offer, prior CMVM registration is required. If the offerer is a non res ident hav ing a head office in a non-EU country, the pr ior issue of a prospectus in Portugal or any other EU country is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other in s trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on d irect inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment The marketing of noncoordinated undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) must be authorized by the MOF. Coordinated UCITS must be reported to the CMVM. No. No. Inves tmen ts are pe rm i t ted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign investments should be registered w i th in 30 days ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 749 after the operation has been made. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions No. No. No. Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts The p rud en t i al m i n im um own - funds r equ i r em en ts are applied on a nond i s c r im in a to ry basis. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors There are l im i ts on and proh ib i ted acqu is i t ions of securities. As w i th f inanc ial companies, there are restrictions for asset management compan ies and ho ld ings. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts A m ax imum l im it of 10% on non res ident stocks quoted in stock markets of EU member coun tr ies is a l lowed. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment por tfo l io he ld abroad Yes. L im i ts (m i n .) on inves tment por tfo l io held locally A m i n i m um inves tment l im it of 50% in Portuguese p u b l ic debt securities w i th a m a t u r i ty of over one year is allowed. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other contro ls imposed by securities laws An 80% currency matching of assets owned by insurance companies is required. The MOF issues regu la t ions on the e l ig ib le assets of insurance companies, pens ion fund s, and securities investment funds. Arrangements for payments and receipts November 14. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal R e p u b l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Qatar is the Qatar r iya l. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion o f control The o f f ic ia l exchange rate for the Qatar r iyal is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1, w i th in marg ins of ±7.25% around th is rate. The Qatar Central Bank (QCB) sets da i ly rates for the dollar, the intervention currency. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in dollars are based on the QCB's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buy ing and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the dollar. No. No. In the commercial bank ing sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market . Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Iraq and Israel are p roh ib i ted, as are all f inanc ial transactions w i th the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. No other prescription of currency requ i remen ts is in force. n.a. n.a. No. The QCB is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control leg is la t ion. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Finance, Economy, and Commerce. In terna t ional securit y restrictions F inanc ial transactions w i th the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia are p roh ib i ted. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. No. No. For trad ing purposes, the buy ing and se l l ing of gold and prec ious metals r equ i re import licenses and are subject to customs duty. Transactions i n v o l v i ng Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 750 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR Resident Accounts 751 Foreign exchange accounts permitted No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts he ld by residents and those he ld by non res iden ts. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is requ i red. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports of a lcoho l ic beverages, firearms, amm u n i t i o n, and certain d rugs are subject to l icens ing for reasons of health or pub l ic po l icy. Negative l ist All imports from Iraq and Israel are p roh ib i ted, as are imports of pork and its der iva t ives. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports are generally subject to a customs tar iff of 4%, wh ich is the m i n im um rate app l ied by members of the GCC. The customs ta r i ff on steel is 20%; on tobacco, 50%; and on alco- ho l, 100%. Imports from GCC member coun t r ies are exempt from ta r i f fs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 QATAR Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, and agriculture. On October 16, 2000, the authorities approved a new foreign direct investment law, which, among other things, allows up to 100% foreign ownership in the agriculture, industry, health, and tourism sectors. Un t il that date, noncitizens were required to engage in busi- ness jointly with Qatari partners, who had to hold at least 51% of the capital. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment October 16. The authorities approved a new foreign direct investment law which, among other things, allowed 100% foreign ownership in the agriculture, industry, health, education, and tourism sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I I I Date of acceptance: March 25, 1998. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Roman ian leu. The transferab le rub le con t inues to be used as a u n it of account for ou ts tand ing balances of the fo rmer CMEA. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the leu is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania (NBR) intervenes in the exchange market to adjust the exchange rate of the leu and to bu i ld up foreign exchange reserves. Dealings in the fore ign exchange marke t are subject to NBR au thor iza t ion. All commercial banks are au thor ized to participate in the interbank foreign exchange market. Ju r id ical persons other than author- ized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. Natural persons may purchase or sell foreign currency either through authorized banks or through fore ig n exchange offices. The NBR quotes rates for 15 currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the dollar in the countries concerned, and the rates for 11 currencies of the euro area based on the rates of these currencies against the euro. For- eign exchange offices conduct transactions w i th banknotes of the above currencies and accept trave ler's checks and cards denominated in these currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market The forward market is not yet developed. Off ic ial cover of forward operations n . r. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral paymen t arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments t o and from countries w i th wh ich Roman ia has b i la te ral payment arrangements are mad e on ly in conve r t ib le currencies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those arrangements. n.a. n.a. There are arrangements w i th Ch ina, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Pakistan, and some former CMEA members, aimed at l iqu ida t ing the balance of the CMEA accounts. There are arrangements w i th A lban ia, A lge r ia, Costa Rica, Egypt, Greece, I n d i a, and the Is lam ic Repub l i c of Iran. Regional arrangements Rom an ia i s a member of the CEFTA and has free trade agreements w i th the EFTA countries, Turkey, and Moldova. Romania is an associated country to the EU. 753 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 754 ROMANIA C lear ing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control There are c lear ing arrangements w i th Bangladesh and a few countries of the fo rmer CMEA, but they are on ly used to settle p rev ious balances. The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange transac- t ions and authorizes certain capital transfers, w h i le current paymen ts and transfers are free. In terna t ional secur ity restrictions No. Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (co ins and /or b u l l i o n) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The NBR has sole authority to purchase or to sell gold in any manner. It may grant perm iss ion to certain j u r i d i c al persons for such purposes. Controls on external trade There are no actual au thor iza t ions for conduc t ing external trade. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes Amoun ts for the export and import of currency exceeding those de ta i led be low have to be declared at customs and deposited against a receipt. On a fu tu re t r ip to Roman ia w i t h in three years, those amoun ts may be used; after three years, they are au toma t ica l ly passed to the state budget. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Na tu ral persons may take out lei 500,000 a person a tr ip. Na tural persons may take out foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a person a trip. Na tu ral persons may b r ing into Roman ia up to lei 500,000 a person a t r ip. Na tu ral persons may b r ing in to Roman ia up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a person a t r ip. Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) ju r id ical persons who are registered in Romania (i.e., pub l ic ins t i tu t ions, embassies, consulates, other Romanian representatives abroad); (2) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, clubs, leagues, and any other profit or nonprofit ju r id ical persons authorized to carry on activities w i t h in the Romanian territory; (3) foreign branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies; (4) Roman ian citizens; (5) na tural persons w i th fore ign c i t izensh ip; and (6) stateless per- sons l iv ing in Roman ia. Yes. Except for some categories laid down in regulations, res ident persons need NBR approval to hold accounts abroad. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency F u ll conve r t ib i l i ty is perm i t ted for cu r rent account transactions. Conv e r t ib i l i ty for capital account transactions is l im i t ed and requ ires pr ior approval of the NBR. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. The accounts in domestic currency are account types A, B, and depos it accounts: ( 1) cu r- rent accounts of type A are for depositing proceeds from current transactions, sales and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Conver t ib le into foreign currency ROMANIA 755 purchases of foreign currency against le i, where the und e r ly ing transaction is of a cu r rent na ture, transfers from B accounts, and interest earned on A and B accounts; (2) cu r rent accounts of type B are for capital transactions, i.e., sales and purchases of foreign exchange against le i, where the und e r ly ing transaction is of a capital nature, proceeds from capital transactions, and transfers to/from A accounts; and (3) deposit accounts w i th the p r ior au- tho r iza t ion of the NBR. F u ll conve r t ib i l i ty is pe rm i t ted for cu r rent account transactions stipulated by regu la t ions (profits, d iv idend s, interest, and other income sources re su l t ing from legal transactions). F u ll conve r t ib i l i ty is also permitted for most capital transactions of nonres iden ts in Romania (direct and real estate investments as well as liquidation of those and capital inves tmen ts), wh i ch are allowed freely by law. Conve r t ib i l i ty is also assured for all o ther capital transac t ions that are subject to authorization of the NBR. The conversion in to foreign currencies may be carried out, provided that nonresidents subm it to commerc ial banks the j u s t i f y i ng documents inc lud ing the authorization of the NBR in the case of deposit accounts. For the balances of type A accounts, convertibility is permitted w i t h in 180 days starting from the date of encashment. For the balances of type B and depos it accounts, conv e r t ib i l i ty is perm i t ted at any t ime. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentat ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Documen ta t ion is requ i red in the case of all import payments. Other Yes. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports, in genera l, are not sub ject to l icens ing. The gove rnment may restrict impor ts for reasons of p u b l ic health, na t ional defense, and state security, in accordance w i th the p rov i- sions of the WTO. There is a custom's fee of 0.5% for imports from outside the EU, CEFTA, EFTA, and Turkey. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Tariff rates range between 3% and 144%, averaging about 19% for all goods on a trade- weighted basis. On January 1, 2000, the import surcharge app ly ing to about 63% of imports was reduced to 2% from 4%. On January 1, 2001, the import surcharge was e l im in a t ed. State import monopo ly No. Repatr iat ion requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Res ident j u r i d i c al persons must m a in t a in fore ign exchange export proceeds in accounts opened at domestic commerc ial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania, but they are free to use the balances in these accounts. Repatriation mu st be effected: ( 1) w i t h in 90 calendar days after the goods cross the border; and (2) w i t h in 15 calendar days from the due date that appears in the contract. F inanc ing requ irements Documen ta t ion requ irements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes There are licenses requ i red for statistical purposes on certain new ma ter ia ls and m i n i m a l ly processed goods. There is a comm iss ion of 0.5% for exports ou ts ide the EU, EFTA, CEFTA, and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 ROMANIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments and transfers must be documen ted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Repa tr ia t ion must be effected w i t h in (1) 90 days after completing the work or rendering the services; (2) 5 days from the due date that appears in the contract; and (3) 15 days after comp le t ing the work or render ing the services in the case of advance payments. Surrender requirements Restr ict ions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Controls on cap i tal and money market in s trumen ts On capital ma rket secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale by non re s iden ts is free, whereas issue requ ires NBR authorization and Na t ional Commission for Securities (NCS) approval. Purchase abroad by res iden ts These transactions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts These transac t ions requ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. On money market in s t rum en ts Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions requ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transac t ions r equ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion, except for banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion, except for the sale of money market securi- ties by banks. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale by nonres iden ts is free, whereas issue requ ires NBR authorization and NCS approval. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions r equ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion. Controls on derivatives and other in s t rum en ts Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale by non res iden ts is free, whereas issue requires NBR authorization and NCS approval. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ ire NBR au thor iza t ion. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 757 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents All credit operations extended by nonresidents to residents w i th a maturity exceeding one year are l ibera l ized. Commercial credits w i th a maturity of more than one year require NBR authorization on the basis of appropriate documentation. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits w i th a maturity of more than one year are free. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions require NBR authorization, except for short-term financial credits con- tracted by banks. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits with short-term maturity require NBR authorization. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Those related to commercial credits of less than one year ma tu r i ty or those extended by a commercial bank are free. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are free only if not related to f inanc ial credits. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment These transactions requ ire NBR authorization. Investments of more than 5% in banks requ ire NBR authorization. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ ire NBR authorization. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans These transactions require NBR authorization. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents These transactions require NBR authorization. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings These transactions requ ire NBR authorization only for residents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls These transactions require NBR authorization for maturities longer than one year. Interest rates paid on reserves are d i f f e r ent for each cu r rency. n . r. n.r. n .r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 758 ROMANIA D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents n.r. Yes. The authorization of the NBR is required for investments by residents or nonresidents of more than 5% in a bank's equity. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The open foreign exchange position l im it is 10% of a bank 's own funds. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. n.r. n .r. Imports and import payments January I. The import surcharge was reduced to 2%. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 1. The import surcharge was eliminated. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Russia is the Russian ruble. Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) announces an official exchange rate each day. The o f f i- cial exchange rate is based on the in terbank market exchange rates and is used for account- ing and taxation purposes, and for operations with the MOF. The dollar is the in te rven t ion currency of the CBR. The CBR participates in the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) and in interbank markets as a net buyer and seller of the dollar to smooth out short-term f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate; it also trades in fore ign exchange th rough di- rect dea l ing on the in terbank market outside the organized exchanges. There is a single trading session (UTS) of the interbank foreign currency exchanges. Export proceeds in foreign currency exchanges have to be sold in the UTS or d i rec t ly to the CBR. Based on add i t ional in fo rma t ion on how the exchange rate is de te rm ined, the exchange rate of the Russian Federation has been reclassified, effective December 31, 2000, to the cate- gory managed f loa t ing w i th no p rede te rm ined path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly f loa t ing. There is a 1% tax on purchases of foreign currenc ies and fore ign payment ins t rumen ts. No. Forward contracts are sold by authorized banks. The fu tures markets on the M ICEX, wh ich had been tempo ra r i ly shut down, reopened on December 1, 2000. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. n.a. n.a. There are 24 arrangements. Agreements are ma in ta ined w i th the I s l am ic State of A fghan is tan, Bu lga r ia, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Egypt, Hungary, Ind ia, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Repub l ic, S loven ia, and the Syr ian Arab Repub l ic. Yes. The CBR is responsible for adm in i s te r ing exchange control regulations, supe rv is ing and mon i to r ing transactions of authorized banks, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange pos i t ions. 759 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 RUSSIAN FEDERATION International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Certain restrictions apply against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia. Yes. Yes. Domestic trade in gold is permitted. Monetary gold intended to be part of the coun t ry 's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the government at world prices quoted on the London market and converted at the market exchange rate. Transactions in precious metals (gold and silver bu l l ion) require authorization, and transactions must be effected th rough authorized banks possessing a special license issued by the CBR. The CBR, foreign central banks, and authorized domestic banks are allowed to export rubles. Private persons are prohibited from exporting rubles. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes a nonresident person may take out of the country, provided that a certificate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. Effec t ive February 11, 2000, the amount of foreign currency bank- notes that may be freely taken out by residents is the equ iva lent of $1,500 (prev ious ly $10,000). Exports of amoun ts between $1,500 and $10,000 requ ire a certificate from an authorized bank or other proof of entry of the sources. Amounts exceeding this l im it may be taken out only w i th the authorization of the CBR; th is regulation does not apply to amounts brought in for business purposes. Private persons are prohibited from importing domestic currency, except when the amount does not exceed 500 times the m i n im um wage or when these are imported by m i l i ta ry personnel or workers stationed abroad. The CBR, foreign central banks, and authorized domestic banks are allowed to import rubles. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign banknotes a nonres ident may b r ing in to the coun try, p rov ided the customs regu la t ions are observed. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Balances on these accounts may be used for effecting current foreign exchange transac- tions. The use of foreign exchange proceeds for capital transactions, w i th the exception of certain specific i n d i v i d u al transactions, requ ires a CBR license. Res ident na tural persons may ma in ta in bank accounts abroad on ly d u r i ng the ir stay ou ts ide Russ ia for the purpose of education, employment, medical treatment, or prolonged v is i ts. Upon re turn to Russia, bank accounts abroad must be closed, and balances must be cred- ited to accounts held in authorized banks operating w i th in the territory of Russia. Resident ju r id ical persons, as well as branches of Russian banks, may not maintain accounts abroad w i thout special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent ac- counts abroad in accordance w i th the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts RUSSIAN FEDERATION 761 n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may ma in ta in five types of ruble accounts: (1) "T" accounts, which may be credited w i th proceeds from current international transactions ( inc lud ing proceeds from sales of goods and services to residents of Russia and interest earnings on the account itself), and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by their representative offices in Russia; (2) correspondent rub le accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime applicable to T accounts; (3) "I" accounts, wh ich may be used for investment act- ivities ( inc lud ing privatization operations); (4) nonresident accounts for natural persons; and (5) "S" accounts for transactions invo lv ing government securities. The transfer ab- road of balances in T accounts and correspondent rub le accounts accumulated after June 1, 1996, is not restricted. The use of balances accumulated up to May 31, 1996, is limited to domestic transactions. I accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities, in c lud ing prof it and d iv idend transfers. Balances ma in ta ined in I accounts may be trans- ferred abroad w i thout restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident natural and jur id ical persons may purchase foreign exchange only with ruble balances held in I accounts. Before the balances from any of the f ive types of accounts may be repatriated, they have to be transferred to transit accounts in authorized banks. No interest is paid on these balances. Convertible into foreign currency Repatriation and conversion of funds in the government securities market are subject to a one-year waiting period and require approval. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The CBR requires that all advance payments of Latvian food and consumer goods exported to Russia be l im i t ed to a m ax imum of 180 days. There is an advance import deposit re- qu i remen t, wh ich can be reduced by the amount of an LC issued by an authorized bank; the guarantee of a nonresident bank; a contract to cover the risk of nonrepatriation in the case of a de fau lt of the nonres ident payer; a promissory note issued by a non res ident secured by a nonres ident bank ; or a special perm it from the CBR. Letters of credit Settlements are to be made w i th LCs or promissory notes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures There is a ban on private imports of ethyl alcohol. Licenses are required for imports of various alcoholic products, as well as dual-purpose items, military equipment, medicine, indu s t r i al waste, and ozone-destructive substances. Negative lis t Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Most customs du t ies range from 5% to 16%, but a 30% duty is set on a few sensitive goods. The fo l low ing imports are exempt from duties: i n s u l i n, pr in ted material, cotton, some types of livestock, new diamonds, and wheelchairs. Imports from CIS countries are exempt from duties. On imports of commodities from developing countries (except those subject to ex- cise duties) the customs du ty rate is 75% of the basic rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 RUSSIAN FEDERATION State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements The repatriation ratio is 100%. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes The surrender requirement is 75% and must be effected w i th in seven days. CBR permission is required for foreign exchange transactions associated with deferred payments for exports of goods from Russia for a period exceeding 90 days and for deferrals granted to residents to make advance payments against deliveries of imported goods ex- ceeding 180 days. All payment of Latvian energy, metals, and raw material imports from Russia are to be settled w i th in 180 days. Settlements are to be made with LCs or promissory notes. Export licensing is limited to a small group of products (e.g., military equ ipment and arms, precious metals and stones, rare animals and plant species, and dual-purpose items). Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade in accordance with application procedures established by the government. Yes. Export taxes apply to 175 items, for the most part at a rate of 6.5%, w i th a max imum rate of 50% for nonferrous scrap. A number of goods are subject to specific duties, inc lud ing crude oil and petroleum products. Certain goods are taxed by combined duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers On June 30, 2000, a special procedure was introduced for purchases of foreign exchange exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent for the purpose of meeting payments for certain k inds of services. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les, except those from bank ing services, are subject to the surrender requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The export and import of securities denominated in rubles by residents are subject to regulations established by the CBR, the MOF, and the customs authorities. Nonresidents may purchase from residents securities denominated in foreign exchange with foreign exchange, provided that the residents obtain a license from the CBR for these transactions. No prior authorization is required to purchase securities denominated in rubles with rubles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents RUSSIAN FEDERATION 763 Securities denominated in rubles or in foreign exchange may be purchased w i th funds from type T rub le accounts. Securities denominated in foreign exchange or in rubles w i th a ma tur i ty of more than one year may be purchased w i th funds from type I accounts, as well as from rub le correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. The parties must no t i fy the Federal Secur i t ies Market Comm i s s ion (FKRTsB) of transac- t ions i n v o l v i ng the purchase by non res iden ts of securities issued by residents. Securities of issuers registered in Russ ia may be c ircu la ted abroad on ly w i th the p e rm i s s ion of the FKRTsB. Nonresidents may sell to residents securities denominated in foreign exchange for foreign exchange--provided the residents have a CBR license a l low ing such transactions —as we ll as securities denominated in rubles for rubles. The sale by nonresidents of securities de- nominated in rubles for rub les does not requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion. The parties to such transactions must no t i fy the FKRTsB of conc luded transactions for the purchase by resi- dents of secur i t ies issued by nonres iden ts. Secur i t ies issued by nonres iden ts are perm i t ted to c i rcu la te or to be placed i n i t i a l ly in the secur i t ies market after registration of the ir prospectus w i th the FKRTsB. These securities should be denominated in rubles. Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of secu r i t ies are credited to fore ign exchange accounts opened by nonres iden ts in au thor ized banks, from wh ich these proceeds may be free ly transferred abroad. Rub le proceeds from the sale of secur i t ies and from secu r i t ies issues may be credited to type T rub le accounts of nonres iden ts opened in au tho r ized banks, or to rub le correspondent accounts of non res ident banks. Purchase abroad by residents Prior CBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents CBR approval is requ i red. Proceeds from the sale are to be credited to cu r rent fore ign ex- change accounts of residents. Securities of issuers registered in Russ ia may be c i rcu la ted abroad on ly w i th the pe rm iss ion of the FKRTsB. Russia's domestic debt includes p r im a r i ly the fo l low ing types of l iab i l i t ie s: government short term-zero coupon bonds (GKOs) and federal bonds (OFZs); government nonmarket bonds (OGNZs); government savings bonds; and domestic foreign exchange securities. Non res iden ts may effect opera t ions w i th Russ ian issuers of securities in c lud ed in a l ist comp i led by the CBR by u s ing S accounts in au tho r ized banks. Cu r ren t ly, th is l ist in c lud es GKOs and OFZs, two issues of OGNZs, and Russian issuers' shares and corporate bonds that are listed w i th trade organizers, in compliance w i th the CBR's requ i remen ts. As re- gards OGNZs, inves tors may purchase them from the MOF in comp l iance w i th an agree- ment between the MOF and a par t icu lar investor, but most of these OGNZs have already been retired by the MOF. OGNZs are not traded in the secondary market. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents For nongove rnment in s t rum en t s, the same regu la t ions app ly as for capital markets. The purchase by non r e s id en ts of GKOs and OFZs is carried out th rough type S accounts. Non res iden ts are no longer pe rm i t ted to invest new f u n ds in the government secu r i t ies market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for securities of a participating nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same r egu l a t ions app ly as for secur i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for securities of a participating nature. On collective investment securities Transac t ions w i th non re s iden ts in foreign exchange may be carried out on ly if res iden ts have au tho r i z a t ion from the CBR to conc lude such transactions. The parties shou ld n o t i fy the FKRTsB of conc luded transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents The FKRTsB should be no t if ied of purchases by nonresidents of collective inves tment securities issued by residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The prospectus for co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies issued by non res iden ts mu st be regis- tered w i th the FKRTsB. These securities must be denom ina ted in rub les. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 764 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of these securities must be credited to foreign exchange accounts and may be transferred abroad freely. Residents need prior authorization from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange in order to purchase these securities abroad. Funds for these purchases may be transferred from current foreign exchange accounts. Residents need p r ior authorization from the CBR to purchase securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange in Russia. The sale abroad by residents of collective investment securities for foreign exchange and the transfer of proceeds from the sale require prior authorization from the CBR. Proceeds from the sale are credited to current foreign exchange accounts. Co l lec t ive inves tment securities issued by a resident may c ircu la te abroad, provided FKRTsB approval is granted. Residents may issue collective inves tment securities abroad w i th pr ior au thor iza t ion from the CBR. The export by residents of collective inves tment securities requ ires prior au thor iza t ion from the CBR and the State Customs Comm i t tee. Purchases in foreign exchange are permitted, provided residents have prior authorization from the CBR. The purchase of derivatives with rubles may be carried out freely through type T ruble accounts. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from sales of foreign exchange are allowed, provided the residents have pr ior au thor iza t ion from the CBR. Foreign exchange proceeds may be transferred abroad freely. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Rub le proceeds from sales may be used only w i th in the territory of Russia or may be credited to rub le correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. Purchases are permitted, provided pr ior au thor iza t ion from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange is granted. The transfer of f u n ds to purchase der iva t ives abroad must be carried out from foreign exchange accounts. Sales are permitted w i th prior authorization from the CBR. The transfer of proceeds from the sales requires pr ior authorization from the CBR. Proceeds must be credited to cu r rent foreign exchange accounts. Credits in the form of prepayment for imported commodities, services, and intellectual property with delivery of more than 90 days may be granted only after government authorization. Credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than 90 days may be extended on ly after au thor iza t ion. Credits for more than 180 days may be extended only after pr ior authorization from the CBR. Credits w i th an or ig inal ma tur i ty of less than 180 days may be extended on ly after p r ior authorization from the CBR. To residents from nonresidents Residents may borrow with a maturity of more than 180 days only after prior authorization from the CBR or after registration of the credits by its territorial branches. Credits w i th an o r ig inal ma tu r i ty of less than 180 days may be extended on ly after p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR or after registration by its terr i tor ial branches. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents The performance of obligations under bank guarantees, as we ll as und er surety agreements, in wh ich the party extending the surety is a resident but not an authorized bank, may be carried out only after prior authorization from the CBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment RUSSIAN FEDERATION 765 Investments must be authorized by the CBR. Capital outflow to Latvia for direct and portfolio investments is not allowed w i thout guarantees of the government of Latvia on the return of the investment and its earnings, and guarantees against the d iscr im ina t ion of entities financed with Russian capital. Investment effected through joint ventures or through outright ownership is not restricted, except in banking, where it is limited to 12% of the aggregate authorized capital; in the exploration of natural resources, where a special license is required; or in landownership, where it is prohibited. Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Minis- try of Economy. Investments exceeding Rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rules and privileges with regard to property ownership and economic activities as those accorded to residents. For- eign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases, in accordance with legislation; in such cases, the investor is entitled to compensation. There are provisions protecting foreign investment, including a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign investment for a three-year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect its activities and a provision that any restrictions on activities of foreign investors can be introduced only by Russian law or by presidential decree. Direct investment by crediting the account of a resident with foreign exchange requires prior authorization from the CBR. Direct investments from funds converted into rubles must be registered by the territorial branch of the CBR. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Liquidation requires prior authorization from the CBR. The transfer abroad of proceeds is carried out by selling ruble funds credited to type I ruble accounts for foreign exchange, which may be freely exported. Controls on real estate transactions Prior authorization from the CBR is required for all real estate transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Credits may be granted only after prior authorization from the CBR. To residents from nonresidents Residents may lend to nonresidents only after prior authorization from the CBR. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Sanctions are in place against banks violating reporting requirements on foreign exchange transactions. The regulation prohibits access of such banks to the foreign currency market for transactions on their own account and that of their clients. Borrowing by authorized banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require prior authorization from the CBR. Authorized banks may open correspondent accounts in banks abroad pursuant to the terms specified in the banking license issued by the CBR (restrictions may be imposed on the number of banks that may open correspondent accounts). The opening of other types of accounts in banks abroad requires prior authorization from the CBR. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Only authorized banks may lend to nonresidents, Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Only authorized banks are allowed to lend to residents in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Authorized banks may purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange without prior authorization from the CBR. Other banks may purchase locally issued securi- ties denominated in foreign exchange only after prior authorization from the CBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 766 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Banks are subject to a 100% reserve requ i rement on the f u n ds held in the t rans it accounts of nonresidents. The CBR does not consider requests (1) of credit institutions to open branches in Latvia, (2) of La tv ian banks and a f f i l ia tes to start operations in Russia, or (3) of residents of La tv ia to participate in ex is t ing credit ins t i tu t ions, nor does it a l low Russian credit in s t i tu t ions to participate in the statutory capital of subs id iar ies in Latvia. Abroad by banks Direct investments require prior authorization of the CBR. In banks by nonresidents Direct inves tmen ts requ i re p r ior authorization of the CBR. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The open foreign currency position of commercial banks is 20% of capital for all currenc ies and 10% of capital for any ind iv idu al currency. These l im i ts are app l icab le on a stock and transaction date basis. A neu tral or long position is required in rub les on a flow basis at va lue date or the actual date of the de l ivery of funds to the accounts of the contracting party to the deal. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Inves tment by ins t i tu t ional investors in securities denominated in fore ign exchange requ ires pr ior au thor iza t ion from the CBR. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io held abroad Limits (m in . ) on investment portfolio held locally Resident insurance companies may invest up to 20% abroad. Resident insurance companies must invest at least 80% locally. Other controls imposed by securities laws The federal law gove rn ing the securities market prohibits the preference of one po ten t ial owner over another in the purchase of securities to nonresidents. Exchange arrangement December 1. The futures market of the MICEX reopened. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 31. Based on additional informa t ion on how the exchange rate is determined, the exchange rate of the Russian Federation was reclassified to the category managed floating w i th no predetermined path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. February 11. The amount of fore ign currency banknotes that may be freely taken out by residents was reduced to the equ iva lent of $1,500 from $10,000. Exports of amoun ts between the equ iva lent of $1,500 and $10,000 required a certificate from an authorized bank. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers June 30. A special procedure was in t roduced for purchases of foreign exchange exceeding $10,000 or its equ iva lent for the purpose of meeting payments for certain k inds of services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined on the foreign exchange market, w i th the authorities in terven ing to inf luence the rate. Hence, effective Ju ly 31, 2000, the ex- change rate system of Rwanda was reclassified to the category managed floating w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Banks may apply a variable commission to exchange operations. The National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) does not announce official exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market A forward exchange market has been created, but it is not yet operational. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements No. n.a. n.a. The NBR ma in ta ins agreements w i th the central banks of the CEPGL countries. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible cur- rency. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMESA are made th rough the COMESA's clearinghouse, wh ich is curren t ly being restructured. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists w i th Uganda, but it is not operational. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Foreign exchange control is vested in the NBR, wh ich has delegated authority to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Yes. Trade is restricted to dealers who are approved by the relevant ministry. 767 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 768 RWANDA Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require a declaration. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports A declaration is required for exports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Only foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer may be exported freely. For- eign exchange declared to customs on entry into the country may be reexported upon the presentation of the declaration documents. Domestic currency Declaration is required for the import of banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of $100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency w i thdrawa ls exceeding the equ iva lent of $50,000 a year require support- ing documentation. Effective July 28, 2000, the previous requirement of documenting transactions above $2,500 was eliminated. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Supporting documentation is required for deposits of foreign currency by residents and nonresidents, and deposits from nonresidents' or residents' domestic and/or foreign cur- rency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for import s Imports are generally paid for after delivery. However, authorized banks may make ad- vance payments upon the presentation of supporting documentation showing that such payment is needed. They may also sell up to the equivalent of $50,000 in foreign exchange to importers who request this for imports of goods and services, with supporting documents to be presented later; such transactions must be settled by check or bank transfer. Domiciliation requirements No. Preshipment inspection Imports with an f.o.b. va lue of the equ iva lent of $5,000 or more ($3,000 for fresh food- stuffs and Pharmaceuticals) and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an international agency w i th regard to the quality, quantity, price, and customs tariff of the goods before they are shipped to Rwanda, unless otherwise provided by the NBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 769 Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Other Imports with an f.o.b. value of the equivalent of $2,500 or more are subject to a bank im- port declaration. These declarations must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice stating the f.o.b. va lue of the merchandise. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value . For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, d is infec tan ts, insecticides , rodent poisons, fung ic ides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to the approval of the relevant pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs In addition to customs duty, a file-processing charge—equal to 0.9% of the f.o.b. value of imported genera l merchandise (the m i n im um charge being RF 60,000) and 0.7% of the f.o.b. va lu e for petroleum products —is levied when imports are declared, to cover costs incurred by the inspection agency. Maximum import tariffs are 25%, and the intermediate rates are 15%. Most capital goods remain subject to a zero tariff. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in seven days from the date of payment and may be held in their entirety in foreign exchange accounts maintained by the exporter at authorized banks . F inanc ing requ irement s No. Documentat ion requirements All exports, except trade samples and personal and household effects of travelers, are subject to prior declaration to the authorized banks. Export licenses W i thout quotas Expo rt taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments are permitted on loans and for interest payments under contracts submitted to the NBR w i t h proof that the funds were in i t i a l ly received locally either in cash or in k ind. Ap- proval by an authorized bank is required for payments of profits and dividends and is sub- ject to proof that taxes for the current fiscal year have been provisioned and to a decision by the board of directors of the company concerned approving the payments. Official travel requ ires a travel authorization by the government or by an authorized agency. Daily allowances are granted for such travel. Businessmen may purchase up to the equivalent of $10,000 in payment instruments for each trip, but the number of business trips is not restricted. A max imum allowance of $4,000 a t r ip is granted for tour ism. Personal paymen ts There are no controls on the payment of pensions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 770 Quantitative limits RWANDA For medical costs, unless waived by the NBR residents may purchase up to the equivalent of $20,000 with supporting documents; prior authorization by the NBR is required for transfers of $20,000 or more. Unless waived by the NBR, purchases of foreign exchange for educational expenses are authorized within a l im it of the equivalent of $25,000 a year a student on presentation of supporting documents. Authorized banks may freely approve requests for foreign exchange to cover expenses for a resident's fam i ly members l i v i ng abroad for up to $1,000 a resident a year and to sell freely up to $10,000 a person to resi- dent nationals taking up residence abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contributions, may be transferred abroad. The net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, may also be transferred abroad after payment of taxes. The employee is liable for income tax and social security contributions. Yes. Prior authorization from the NBR is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 a year. Transfers of airline receipts are allowed, provided authorized banks ensure that land ing and hand l ing taxes have been paid and the amounts of transfers represent only the net amounts of all local expenditures. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds may be sold in the domestic foreign exchange market or may be held in foreign exchange accounts with banks located in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Presently, only the money market is operational. On capital market securities These transactions are governed by the pertinent business law provisions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may participate in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale proceeds must be repatriated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 771 Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All credit transactions, including those related to guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities, are subject to NBR approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents NBR approva l is required. To residents from nonresidents NBR approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents NBR approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents NBR approva l is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBR approval is required. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Repatriation of investments by nonresidents is governed by the investment code and must be registered by authorized banks. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Proof of entry of the funds into Rwanda is required at the t ime of payment. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets NBR approva l is requ ired. Transfer abroad by emigrants NBR approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrow ing i s allowed under certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed under certain conditions. Open foreign exchange position limits A l im it of 20% of a bank's capital and reserves is applied. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 RWANDA Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts July 31. The exchange rate system was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly floating. July 28. The requirement of documenting transactions above the equivalent of $2,500 was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Kitts and Nev is is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of ECCB coun tr ies must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. n.a. n.a. St. Kitts and Nevis is a member of the CARICOM. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted U.S. dollar accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the MOF is required to operate other foreign currency accounts. Held domestically These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be debited freely. A m i n im um balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Permission is normally confined to major exporters. Held abroad n.a. 773 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 774 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The same regulations apply as for residents. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts is normally confined to foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import payments exceeding EC$250,000 requ ire prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports payable in foreign currency are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Ind iv idual licenses are required for imports that compete w i th local products unless they come from another member country of the CARICOM. Open general licenses Most goods are imported under OGLs. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. Kitts and Nevis applies the GET of the CARICOM. On January 1, 2001, the third phase of the CARICOM CET came into effect, and the max imum external tariff was reduced to 25% from 30%. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any des t ina t ion. However, the regulations governing export licenses are not fo rma l ly adhered to. Export duties are levied on a few products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Prior approval of the MOF is requ ired for all transactions exceeding EC$250,000. Investment-related payments Profits and d iv idends may be remitted in f u l l, subject to con f i rma t ion of registration by the Commissioner of In land Revenue for income tax purposes. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of direct inves tmen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 775 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Individuals are permitted to purchase up to EC$250,000 without exchange control approval. All outward capital transfers exceeding that amount require exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents For purchases of equity shares, an A l i e n 's Land Ho ld ing license is r equ i r ed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for the sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions apply as for the sale or issue by nonres iden ts of capital market securities. The same regulations apply as for the sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. The same regulations apply as for the sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for the sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The seller of the instruments has to be licensed under the Banking Act, and transfers abroad in excess of EC$250,000 require approval from the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits Presently, there is no market in derivatives and other ins trumen ts. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% A l i e n 's Loan Levy is requ ired for these transactions. To residents from nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Inves tmen ts in equity requ ire an A l i en 's Land Ho ld ing license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 776 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The remittance of proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments is permitted, subject to the discharge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the investment. Transfer of proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requires MOF approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchas ing real estate abroad for private purposes is not no rma l ly permitted. Controls on personal cap ital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) L end ing locally in fore ign exchange MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% A l i en 's Loan Levy are required. MOF approval is requ i red, wh ich is granted on ly in the case of projects generating fore ign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign currencies requires MOF approval. Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January I. The third phase of the CARICOM GET came into effect, reducing the m ax imum external tariff to 25% from 30%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: May 30, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian do l lar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Settlements must be made either in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in U.S. dollars. All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. St. Lucia is a member of the CARICOM. The MOF is responsible for policy decisions related to exchange control, and its Bank ing Section is responsible for its administration. Commercial banks have been delegated the authority to approve payments and transfers below EC$250,000; in the case of imports w i th proper customs documentation, they may approve transactions for any amount. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. 777 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 778 ST. LUCIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Convertible into foreign currency Transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements For advance payments exceeding EC$250,000, prior approval from the MOF is required. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Certain agr icu l tural and manufactured products require ind iv idual licenses. There are three levels of licenses: (1) goods originating outside the region; (2) goods from the region (both OECS and CARICOM); and (3) goods imported from non-OECS countries. Manufactured goods or ig ina t ing in the region are exempt from the payment of import duties. All imported goods are subject to a consumption tax and a service charge of 4%, except for fertilizers, for wh ich the rate is 0.2%. Live animals, eggs, fish, meat, m i lk, fer t i l izers, and most agricultural and manu fac tu r ing machinery are exempt from import duties. On January 1, 2000, the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET came into effect, reducing tariffs on non-CARICOM imports to a maximum of 20% from 30%. State import monopo ly The importation of rice, f lour, and sugar in bu lk form is a state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ irements F inan c ing requ irements Documentation requirements No. n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export l icens ing is requ i red for certain p r ima ry products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 779 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is applied to reexports of pe tro leum. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits W i th the approval of the MOF, profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of In land Revenue and the National Insurance Scheme that l i a b i l i t i es have been discharged. However, in cases where prof i ts are deemed to be h igh, the MOF reserves the r ight to phase remittances over a reasonable per iod. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements There is no repatriation requirement on proceeds of up to EC$250,000. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Outward transfers exceeding EC$250,000 require exchange control approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents n.r. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. n .r. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions requ ire approval from the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 780 ST. LUCIA Controls on credit operations There are controls on all categories of credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits requ ire the approval of the MOF. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other f inanc ial intermediary) to the MOF on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Approval of the MOF is required, except for loans to nonresident St. Lucians. Applications are submitted by authorized dealers on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is not required for nonresident St. Lucians. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000 require approval for repatriation of estate proceeds. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Lending is restricted to Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchase is restricted to securities denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on inves tment portfolio held abroad Ins t i tu t ional investors may invest up to 10% of their statutory deposits in government securities of the Commonwealth of Caribbean Nations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 781 L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws For every U.S. dollar liability, there must be an equivalent U.S. dollar asset. Funds raised from issu ing securities must be invested loca l ly. Imports and import payments January L The fourth phase of the CARICOM GET came into effect, reducing tar iffs on non-CARICOM imports to a max imum of 20% from 30%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. V incent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean do l la r, w h i ch is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at EC$2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM may be made in any currency. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. n.a. n.a. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a member of the CARICOM. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries ou ts ide the ECCB area. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve some import payments and certain other payments. n.a. No. Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes on ly. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for indu s t r ial purposes on ly. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted n.a. Resident Accounts 782 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 783 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened by nonresidents w i th the au thor iza t ion of the MOF and credited only w i th funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except w i th the p r ior permission of the MOF, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad w i thout prior authorization from the MOF. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the MOF. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents w i th the au thor iza t ion of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited w i th inwa rd remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Credits and debits to these accounts are subject to the same regulations as for foreign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts n.a. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirement s for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports over EC$250,000 requ i re pr ior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and subm iss ion of documentary evidence and, where required, of the license. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of some goods that compete w i th typ ical ex- ports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of goods that compete w i th locally made products are proh ib i ted in some cases. In accordance w i th the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET, the import tar iff rates range from zero to 20%. In addition, imports are subject to a consumption tax ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the ta r i f f - inc lus ive va lue of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the con- sumption tax. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the customs service charge imposed on the c.i.f va lue o f all imported goods, with certain exceptions, was raised to 4% from 2.5%. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of receipt. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 784 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Export licenses Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Other payments exceeding EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Approval is granted routinely. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. The l im i ts are the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, and EC$6,000 a year for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the MOF. Personal payments Information is not available on the transfer of pensions, family maintenance, and alimony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirement s Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents All outward capital transfers over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Residents are normally not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 785 Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is requ i red. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is perm i t ted, subject to the discharge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the inves tmen t. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Borrow ing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrow ing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance the ir domestic operations requ i res the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other contro ls imposed by secur it ies laws n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments January I. The customs service charge imposed on the c . i .f. va lue of all imported goods, w i th certain exceptions, was raised to 4% from 2.5%. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Samoa is the Samoa tala. No. Un i ta ry. The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed re la t ionsh ip w i th a weighted bas- ket of currencies of Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket w i t h in a margin of up to 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are permitted to make forward exchange contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion o f control n.a. n.a. No. Overall respons ib i l i ty for the adm in is tra t ion of exchange control rests w i th the CBS, wh i ch delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In pr inc ip le, all paymen ts to nonres iden ts require the CBS's approval. However, the ANZ Bank (Samoa) Ltd., the Na t ional Bank of Samoa, and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the on ly authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain payments without limits and others up to specified amounts. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on ) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to export SAT 2,000 as part of the ir travel allowance. Samoan residents are allowed to export the equ iva lent of SAT 5,000 in foreign currency. Nonres iden ts may export the amount of foreign currency they brought in to the country. 786 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 787 Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who earn fore ign exchange in the normal course of the ir business may open, w i th the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency accounts w i th one of the three commercial banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is requ ired, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonres iden ts who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments. However, approval is requ ired to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is requ ired. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements The l im it for advance payments is SAT 10,000. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs No l im i ts are imposed on imports under an open account. However, payment requ i res CBS approval. The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. The importation of used cars requires pr ior approval of the CBS. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. The max imum import tariff is 20%. Rates on mach inery and agricultural imports are generally levied at 10% or lower, wh i le those on motor vehicles are at 20%. There are only four general rates of duty —zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, an import excise tax is applied to imports of alcohol, soft d r ink s, tobacco, petroleum, and passenger cars. Enterprises produc ing for export may receive f u ll or partial exemption from duties and excise taxes on inputs and capital equ ipmen t. Taxes collected through the exchange system There is a va lue-added goods and service tax. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 788 Surrender requ iremen ts SAMOA Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i t h in three months of the date of sh ipmen t, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, w h i ch must be surrendered to the authorized bank w i th in four weeks of the date of sh ipmen t. F in an c ing requ irements Yes. Documentat ion requ iremen ts Certificates va l ida ted by an authorized bank are requ ired for exports in excess of SAT 250. Export licenses W i thout quotas All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be p roh ib i ted by the D irec tor of Ag r i cu l tu re on grounds of low qua l i ty, or by order of the head of state to a l lev ia te domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for certain inv is ib les may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified l im i t s. Payments in excess of these l im i ts, as we ll as payments for all other inv is ib les, re- qu i re the prior approval of the CBS, wh ich is granted when applications are supported by documen ta ry proof that capital transactions are not invo lved. The CBS's approval process govern ing the remittance of inv i s ib le payments is concerned only w i th whether a transac t ion is bona f ide. Yes. Yes. Yes. A 15% w i t h h o l d i ng tax is lev ied on remittances of interest payments on overseas loans and of d i v i d e n ds at the source. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le for the payment of amo r t iza t ion of loans or dep rec ia t ion of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Res iden ts and expatriates t rave l ing overseas for p r iva te purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equ iva lent to SAT 400 a person a day, subject to a l im it of SAT 5,000 a person a t r ip; c h i l d r en under 15 years of age are en t i t led to 50% of the adu lt allowances. A da i ly a l lowance of SAT 600 a person is allotted for business travel, with a l im it of SAT 6,000 a t r ip. Yes. Yes. Au tho r ized banks may approve transfers of g i f ts to relatives and dependents, either for special f am i ly occasions or for maintenance, up to SAT 500 a person a year. Requests for larger amoun ts may be approved by the CBS on a case-by-case basis. A l though no l im it is set on rem i t tances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documen ta ry ev idence must be prov ided to support requests for such remittances. There is no specific l im it for costs to study abroad, but the amount requested must be supported by documentary evidence con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational i n s t i t u t i on abroad and costs are in l i ne w i th the p r e v a i l i ng costs in the coun try of s tudy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits SAMOA 789 Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatriated du r ing the contract may be repa- triated at the end of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test As regards subscriptions and membership fees, no specific l im it exists, but amounts requested must be supported by documentary evidence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on the ir return, sell to the banks all unused foreign exchange brought in. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Most capital transactions (inward and outward) require approval of the CBS. Local money markets are beg inn ing to develop fo l low ing the introduction of open market operations by the CBS. No capital market has yet developed in Samoa. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 790 SAMOA On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Yes. No. Controls on credit operations All credit operations require CBS approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments require CBS approval. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Repatriation of inves tmen ts requires CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings There are no restrictions for nonresidents, but residents requ ire approval from the CBS. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Bo r row ing requ ires CBS approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) L end ing loca l ly in fo re ign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 791 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Yes. No. Other controls imposed by securities laws All outward capital transfers by residents requ ire the specific approval of the CBS. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of April 30, 2001) Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender remains the Italian lira un t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Italian lira and the euro w i ll circulate. The monetary agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annua l ly agreed amounts of San Marino l ira coins equ iv- alent in form to Italian coinage; these coins are legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued, but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is generally not used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value, which is Lit 60,000 per 1 scudo. An agreement between San Marino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) reached on Novem- ber 29, 2000, and entered into force on April 1, 2001, provides for San Marino to issue, as of January 1, 2002, agreed amounts of euro coins equivalent in form to euro area coin- age; these coins w i ll be legal tender in the euro area. It also envisages the poss ib i l i ty for San Marino to issue banknotes, provided that an agreement is reached w i th the EU. The current agreement does not affect San Mar ino's r ight to con t inue issu ing gold scud i. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Foreign exchange transactions are conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction at rates quoted in in terna t ional markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction at rates quoted in in terna t ional markets. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries on foreign accounts are made in convertible currencies or in euro. n.a. n.a. No. The Central Bank of San Ma r ino (CBSM) may grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese f inanc ia l institutions (since August 4, 2000, four banks have been so author- ized). The Finance and Exchange Agreement w i th Italy allows Sammarinese banks to ma in ta in accounts w i th f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions abroad. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduc t foreign exchange transactions freely, w i th settlement effected through author- ized I ta l ian in termed iar ies (the Bank of Italy, the I ta l ian Foreign Exchange Office, au thor- ized banks, and the postal administration). 792 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 793 Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions San Marino adopts the restrictions applied by the EU. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Laws establish that the CBSM is the sole agency entitled to carry out transactions in gold. The CBSM may authorize other banks or domestic companies to buy gold for production purposes, after ensuring the necessary controls. Currently, there is no gold trade in San Marino. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes To combat money launder ing, transactions in cash or bearer securities in excess of €15,500 must be made through financial institutions. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to ma in ta in any type of deposit accounts, w i th the exception of numbered accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to ma in ta in any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of numbered accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Imports from the EU are not subject to restrictions, whereas imports from th ird countries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 SAN MARINO Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties on imports from outside the EU are collected by EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied by San Marino on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian VAT, but the average effective rate is about 4% lower. Sales taxes levied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the p u b l ic sector. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Exports to the EU are not subject to restrictions, wh i le exports to th i rd countries are governed by relevant EU regulations. Customs clearance formalities concerning the export of arms, works of art, precursor, and dual-use products must be carried out at the customs offices iden t if ied by the EU-San Marino Cooperation Committee. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No controls are applied on transfers. However, payments exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirement s No controls are applied; however, proceeds exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Controls on capital and money market instrument s On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are subject to authorization, wh i le the issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature is not allowed. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment SAN MARINO 795 The same regulations apply as for the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating na ture. The same regu la t ions app ly as for the sale and issue of shares or other secur i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. The same regulations apply as for the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature. The granting of substantial amoun ts of f in an c i al credits to a person or a company is sub ject to the bank ing law provisions as well as those of the Office of Banking Supervision. Yes. Yes. Investments requ i re gove rnment approval, wh ich is based on con fo rm i ty w i th long-term deve lopmen tal and env i ronmen tal policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment w i th national firms. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases by domestic companies and nonres iden ts requ ire approval from the Counc il of Twelve. App roval is granted on a case-by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Except for occasional transactions, th is activity is not allowed. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The granting of substantial amounts of f inanc ial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the Office of Banking Supervision. Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange The gran t ing of subs tan t ial amounts of f inanc ial credits to a person or a company is subject to the bank ing law p rov i s ions as well as those of the Office of Bank ing Superv is ion. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The purchase of secur i t ies of a participating na ture exceeding 5% of a Sammarinese b a n k 's capital must be declared to the Office of Banking Superv is ion. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 SAN MARINO Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement November 29. An agreement was reached with Italy (on behalf of the EU), providing for San Marino to issue, as of January 1, 2002, agreed amounts of euro coins equivalent in form to euro area coinage; these coins w i ll be legal tender in the euro area. Exchange arrangement April 1. The agreement between San Marino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) on the issue of euro coins by San Marino entered into force. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe dobra. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The official exchange rate is computed on a daily basis as a weighted average of the exchange rates of the exchange bureaus, the commercial banks, and the parallel market. The intervention currency is the dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the dollar for the currencies concerned. The taxation system differs for import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collec- tion of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrangements are as follows: when an LC is opened, a stamp duty of 0.25% is payable, as well as a postage levy of $2. On foreign checks for collection, commercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a m in imum of $25 and a max imum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened and an additional fee of 0.125% when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. Inoperative There are inoperative bilateral agreements w i th Angola and Cape Verde. Adm in is tra t ion of control Import and export licenses are freely granted by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 797 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely opened and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All ind iv idua ls and productive entities are permitted to engage in import activity. Import taxes and/or tar iffs On January 1, 2000, a new customs tariff was implemented. The new tar iff has three rates (5%, 10%, and 120%), with no zero-rate band and adjusted specific consumer taxes for refined petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. With this reform, the current unweighted average tariff rate is 12%, down from 27% in 1999. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses No. No. Yes. Yes. For statistical purposes, all exports requ i re the completion of a registration form spec ify ing the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. va lue of the export. Export taxes On February 28, 2000, all export taxes were eliminated. Taxes collected through the exchange system Banks charge a comm iss ion of 0.125% on the collection of export proceeds, w i th a m i n i- mum of $25 and a m ax imum of $300 when the LC is opened, and an add i t ional comm is- sion of 0.125% when f u n ds are received. They also charge a postage levy of Db 39,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 799 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments related to inv is ib les are subject to a stamp tax of 0.5%. In addition, commer- cial banks charge a postage levy of $2 for clients (and $4 for others) on all transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other m in ing industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 1. A new customs tariff was implemented w i th three rates (5%, 10%, and 120%), with no zero-rate band and adjusted specific consumer taxes for refined petroleum prod- ucts, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Exports and export proceeds February 28. All export taxes were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements The exchange rate of the riyal is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. The inter- vention currency is the dollar, to which a close relationship is maintained. The riyal rate against the dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). The SAMA's m idd le rate, which has been stable since June 1986 at SRls 3.745 per $1, serves— together with the SAMA's selling and buying rates—as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125% above and below the SAMA's buy ing and selling rates. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions w i th, and the use of the currency of, Israel are prohibited. No. Administration of control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions on transactions with Iraq. In compliance with UN Security Counc il resolutions, certain restrictions have been im- posed on the mak ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions w i th respect to the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Residents may import and export gold in any form, except manufactured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12% customs duty. Gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 800 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 801 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Yes. Trade w i th Israel is prohibited. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging from zero to 12%. For a few goods, the rate is 20% and for tobacco products, 50%. Imports from members of the GCC are exempt from duties, provided that at least 40% of value added is effected in GCC coun- tries and that at least 51% of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 SAUDI ARABIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is restricted to Saudi Arabian nationals, Saudi Arabian corporations and institutions, and citizens of the GCC. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock compa- nies is allowed for foreign investors through mu tual funds managed by Saudi banks. There are no controls on portfolio investment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the Minister of Commerce to sell or issue securities w i th in the Kingdom. There are no controls on the repatriation of proceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell nonresident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. For the sale of collective investment securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents In the case of collective investments securities, where the under ly ing assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the same regulations apply as for snares or other securities of a participating nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required for riyal-denominated loans made through Saudi Arabian banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 803 Financial credits The SAMA 's pe rm iss ion is requ ired. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required. To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions that give guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Approved foreign inves tmen ts in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same p r iv i leges as domestic capi- tal. Effec t ive Ap r il 10, 2000, a new foreign investment law came into effect, a l l ow i ng for- eign investors to make direct investments in most of the coun t ry 's economic sectors —with or w i thout local participation —and reduc ing tax rates on foreign company p ro f i ts exceed- ing SRls 100,000 by 15% (reducing the max imum to 30% from 45%). The tax rates are now 20%, 25%, and 30% on various prof it levels. Foreign capital invested in i n d u s t r i al or agr icu l tural projects w i th at least 25% Saudi Arabian participation is exempt f rom income and corporate tax for 10 years after production has begun. Effective February 11, 2001, the Supreme Economic Council approved a list of economic sectors that remain off- l im i ts to foreign investors. These include projects related to oil ex- ploration, d r i l l ing, and production; production of military equ ipment and un i fo rm s; produc- tion of explosives for c iv il purposes; pr in t ing and pub l ish ing; te lecommun ica t ions; educa- t ion; insurance; land and air transportation; real estate projects in Mecca and Med ina; electricity transmission and d is tr ibu t ion; fishery activities; d is tr ibu t ion services, i n c l u d i ng wholesale and retail trade and commercial agencies; and a few other sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents In principle, the purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Ara- bian corporations, Saudi Arabian institutions, and citizens of the GCC. However, under the new investment law, which has been in effect since Apr il 10, 2000, foreign investors are allowed to own real estate as needed for their business, including housing for their staff. Also, effective Ju ly 19, 2000, nonresidents are allowed to purchase real estate for conduct- ing real estate business in all cities, except for the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, pro- vided that the investment in the real estate business is not less than SRls 30 m i l l i o n. Controls on personal capital movements No. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prize earnings are transferable; gambling is prohibited. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Saudi banks requ i re the SAMA's pe rm iss ion to lend to nonres iden ts, except for in te rbank transactions and commerc ial credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks For in te rbank deposits o r ig ina t ing from foreign banks, on ly domestic cu r rency deposits are subject to the SAMA 's reserve requ i remen t. The SAMA's approval is required by Saudi Arab ian banks before a cqu i r ing shares in a company established outside the K ingdom. In banks by nonresidents Pr ior perm iss ion of the authorities is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 804 SAUDI ARABIA Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Changes During 2000 April JO. A new foreign investment law came into effect, allowing foreign investors to make direct investments in most of the country's economic sectors—with or w i thout local participation —and reducing tax rates on foreign company profits exceeding SRls 100,000 by 15% (reducing the maximum to 30% from 45%). The tax rates became 20%, 25%, and 30% on various profit levels. Controls on real estate transactions April 10. Foreign investors were allowed to own real estate as needed for their business, inc lud ing housing for their staff. July 19. Nonresidents were allowed to own real estate for the purpose of conducting busi- ness in real estate, except in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, provided the investment is not less than SRls 30 m i l l ion. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment February 11. The Supreme Economic Council approved a list of economic sectors that remain off-limits to foreign investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of French francs and a freely de term ined commission on purchases and sales of fore ign cu r renc ies not directly related to transactions abroad. In addition, a comm iss ion of 0.25% (a ll of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury) is levied by banks on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU . Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover for payments related to im- ports and exports of goods and services. Forward cover may be provided only in the cur- rency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of the import or export payment stipulated in the commercial contract. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Senegal is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A mu l t in a t ion al c lear ing agreement exists in the context of the WAMA between the coun- tries of the WAEMU, Cape Verde, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, L iber ia, Mau r i tan ia, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone. All paymen ts related to cu r rent transactions between these countries are e l ig ib le to participate in the clearing arrangements. However, this excludes transactions specified by the committee of governors of the central banks of ECOWAS member coun- tries and payments related to subregional trade of finished products originating in countries whose central bank or monetary authority is not a member of the WAMA. Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the M in i s t ry of Economy, F inance, and P l ann ing (MEFP), wh ic h has delegated a part of its approval au thor i ty to the BCEAO and to au thor- ized banks. The Directorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs offices mon i tor outflows of foreign exchange and conf irm imports and exports of goods. All ex- change operations w i th foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the 805 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 SENEGAL postal administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO and the MEFP exercise exchange con- trols ex post. No supporting documen ts are requ ired for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on precious metal brokers. Imports and exports of gold originating in or bound to non -WAEMU countries requ i re prior authorization from the MEFP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con ta in ing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 500 grams. CFA franc banknotes may be exported freely by travelers. However, the suspension of BCEAO repurchases of exported banknotes continues. In add i t ion, the exchange of BCEAO banknotes between authorized dealers and the ir correspondents ou ts ide the WAMU is prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 is allowed. In order to reexport foreign banknotes in excess of th is ce i l ing, the traveler must prov ide documen ta t ion show ing that the notes were imported or pu r- chased w i th another means of payment recorded in the trave ler's name or via a w i t h d r aw al from a nonres ident account at a local bank. Banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO may be imported freely by residents or nonresidents. Nonresidents and residents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i t h in eight days. Nonresidents are required to make a written declaration of all means of payment they hold in excess of CFAF 1 m i l l ion upon entry into or departure from Senegal. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening of these accounts with authorized intermediaries in Senegal is permitted, but is subject to prior approval by the MEFP w i th the consent of the BCEAO. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. I n d i v i d u a ls t rave l in g abroad may open bank accounts to receive fore ign currency leg i t i- mately exported or earned d u r i ng th e ir stay abroad. However, residents are r e q u i r ed to repatriate assets he ld in these accounts w i t h in 30 days of t h e ir r e tu rn. In all o ther cases, the pr io r au thor iza t ion of the MEFP, w i th the agreement of the BCEAO, is r equ i r ed to open an account abroad. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 807 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents may ho ld these accounts w i th authorized f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions, but p r ior approval of the BCEAO is requ ired. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may not be credited w i th BCEAO banknotes or banknotes issued by central banks that ma in ta in an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEFP, which is given with the consent of the BCEAO. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident-owned foreign-currency accounts may be debited f ree ly for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the off ic ial exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange un t il the contractual date of the payments. Import transactions or ig ina t ing in countries outside the CFA franc zone are requ i red to be domiciled w i th authorized banks if imports exceed CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. An inspection is required for the quan t i ty, quality, and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l i on f.o.b. Other Exchange authorization, invoices, and import-export cards are required. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Quan t i ta t ive restrictions may be applied on products for p u b l ic health and security reasons. Imports of narcotics and f irearms are p roh ib i ted. On January 1, 2000, a GET w i th four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%) was introduced. The customs stamp was replaced w i th a statistical levy of 1%. A new WAEMU commun i ty levy of 1% was also introduced, as was an ECOWAS levy of 0.5%. Thus, the m a x im um ta r i ff rate is now 22.5%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports, exc lud ing those between WAEMU countries, must no rma l ly be collected w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one mon th after the due date. Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank all foreign exchange proceeds from abroad or from nonresidents w i t h in a mon th after the due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 SENEGAL F inanc ing requirements No. Documen ta t ion requ iremen ts A cus toms dec la ra t ion is requ i red. Dom i c i l i a t ion Export licenses W i t h o ut quota s Export taxes All exports hav ing a va lue in excess of CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled, except those between WAEMU coun tr ies. Licenses are required for gold exports. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related paymen ts Indicative limits/bona fide test Inves tmen t - re la ted paymen ts Prior approval Indicative limits'/bona fide test Paymen ts for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments fo r i n v i s i b le transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account coun t r ies may be made freely. Payments and receipts made by foreign ships in WAEMU ports or by WAEMU ships in foreign ports are considered current transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident travelers must present a travel document and a va l id passport or a national identity card to an au thor ized in te rmed ia ry before foreign exchange w i ll be issued. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent o f CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in the form o f t rave le r 's checks, certified checks, or other means of payment. Indicative limit s/bona fide test Personal paymen t s Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limit s/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon presentation of pay slips. Cred it card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limit s/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limit s/bona fide test Yes. Credit cards issued by specialized agencies may be used. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen t s Proceeds from i n v i s i b le transactions w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies mu s t be repatriated, but need not be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 809 Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital movements between WAEMU member countries are free of exchange control. W i th the exception of (1) current payments; (2) transfers of amounts necessary for the contractual amortization of debts and the repayment of short-term loans granted to finance indus tr ial and commercial operations; (3) transfers of proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of investments or sale of foreign securities by nonresidents; and (4) payments for the pur- chase of options, capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the MEFP, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require pr ior authorization from the MEFP; up to 75% of such investments may be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign borrow ing must be reported for statistical purposes only. The pr ior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the fo l low ing operations: issu ing, marketing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, and pub l ic i ty or advertising for investment abroad. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are subject to declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue or marke t ing of securities by nonresidents is subject to pr ior au thor iza t ion from the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These operations, as we ll as transfers of related funds, require the approval of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of securities for disinvestment purposes in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident. Settlement for transfers or c red i t ing of funds to the account of a nonresident requires an exchange authorization, wh ich is subject to MEFP approval. Foreign currency proceeds from the sale of securities or d is inves tment must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. On money market instruments The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments, wh ich are v i r tua l ly unknown in Senegal, are governed by the regula- tions applicable to securities and investments. Residents may freely purchase —abroad or from nonresidents —call or put options for commodities or securities. Residents may not purchase commodities or securities on foreign markets for delivery in a put contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for d e l iv e ry abroad in execution of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial credits may be granted freely in connection w i th me rchand ise exports if the due date of the payment is w i t h in 120 days of the sh ipment of the merchand ise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 810 SENEGAL To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Commercial credits in connection with the provision of services may be granted freely by residents; no l im it is set for the payment due date. Nonresidents may grant freely commercial credits to resident institutions. Repayments of commercial credits are generally authorized, subject to the submission of supporting documents. These credits require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service these facilities requires an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the MEFP, and the submission of supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these loans. The funds required for servicing these facilities must be transferred abroad by an authorized intermediary bank. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The granting of guarantees and sureties is subject to pr ior approval by the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds required to service these fac i l i t ies requires issuance of an exchange permit, subject to approval of the MEFP and the submission of supporting documents. These facilities may be granted freely, although the funds required for servicing them must be transferred abroad by an authorized bank. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct investment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and therefore require a prior declaration to the MEFP. Direct investments constitute investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment unless it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. All investments abroad by Senegalese residents, inc lud ing investments through foreign companies under the direct or indirect control of residents of Senegal and investments by foreign branches or subsidiaries of companies established in Senegal, require the prior authorization of the MEFP; up to 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign borrowing. No authorization is re- qu ired for the purchase of foreign securities if the RCPSFM has authorized their issue or marketing in WAEMU countries. Foreign direct investments in Senegal, including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP for statistical purposes. The liquidation of investments by residents abroad must be reported to the MEFP. The reinvestment of the proceeds of such liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Senegal is allowed, but must be reported for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Sales between nonresidents and residents require the submission of supporting documen- tation to the authorized intermediary that handles the settlement and must be declared to the MEFP. Unless prior authorization is received from the MEFP, capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the central bank, the postal admin- istration, or an authorized intermediary bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 811 By residents to nonresidents Loans of any k ind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to non res iden ts by authorized in termed iar ies are subject to p r ior MEFP au thor iza t ion w i th the consent of the BCEAO. To residents from nonresidents These transactions may be made free ly, but they are subject to declaration for statistical purposes to the MEFP when granted and when repaid. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Inher i tances and legacies are genera l ly au thor ized. G i f ts and endowmen ts, however, are subject to p r ior MEFP au thor iza t ion. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are sub ject to dec lara t ion. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Imm ig ran ts w i th resident status must ob ta in the p r ior au thor iza t ion of the MEFP to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to presentation of supporting documents to the MEFP. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad For statistical purposes, these transactions must be declared to the MEFP when they are granted and when they are repaid. Banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may open accounts w i th the ir correspondent banks to settle operations for the ir own account or for their customers. However, banks may not keep amoun ts exceeding the ir current requ i remen ts in these accounts. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) These operations are allowed when they consist of commercial credits. Pr ior MEFP authorization is required for loans and f inanc ial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange n.r. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases require prior RCPSFM authorization. Loans of any k ind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to non re s iden ts are subject to pr ior MEFP authorization, w i th the agreement of the BCEAO. These c l a ims are inc luded in the external position of banks and f inanc ial institutions, wh ich is subject to special m o n i t o r i n g. Yes. The same regu la t ions app ly as for d i rect inves tmen t. Yes. Yes. Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts These positions, wh i ch requ i re an excep t ional wa iver, are not subject to p ruden t ial ratios. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors Res tr ic t ions are imposed by the in su rance code of the In te r -A f r ican Conference on Insurance Markets (CIMA). L im i ts (m in .) on inves tment por tfo l io held loca l ly The C IMA code in effect in Senegal in c lud es specific rules on the use of the techn ical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 SENEGAL Changes During 2000 Impo r ts and im p o rt p aym en ts January 1. A GET w i th four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%) was introduced, the customs stamp was replaced w i th a statistical levy of 1%, and a new WAEMU commun i ty levy of 1% was also introduced, as was an ECOWAS levy of 0.5%. Thus, the max imum tariff rate is now 22.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Var ious commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Seychelles rupee is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' m a in trading and tourism partners. The weights are as follows: the euro (31.2%), the Japanese yen (3.7%), the pound sterling (16.8%), the Singapore do l lar (10.3%), the South A f r ican rand (11.5%), and the U.S. dollar (26.5%). Exchange rates for various currenc ies are quoted on the basis of the ir New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, u s ing the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS) circulates these rates da i ly to the commer- cial banks. The CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective currenc ies. Other authorized dealers inc lude casinos, guest houses, hotels, restaurants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, sh ipp ing agents, and ship chandlers. These dealers are restricted to buy ing only in the course of the ir licensed ac t iv i ty. They must sell all their foreign currency proceeds to the f ive commercial banks. All other transac t ions in foreign exchange are p roh ib i ted. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Seychelles is a participant in the COMESA and the Cross-Border In i t ia t ive. The exchange control au thor i t ies are the CBS and the MOF. The MOF pa r t ia l ly con tro ls foreign trade and domestic marke t ing through a mechan ism of import and pr ice controls. Internat ional security restrictions No. 813 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 SEYCHELLES Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold freely in any form, except for dea l ings in gold b u l l i o n, wh ich are restricted to au thor ized dealers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may take out up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Travelers may take out any amount of fore ign currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but approval is requ ired. Held domes t ica l ly Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for imports Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Other non tar iff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Importers other than i n d i v i d u a ls are requ i red to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority, in accordance with objective criteria. In addition, for each shipment of commodities, an importer must apply to the Trade and Commerce D iv i s ion of the MOF for a perm i t, the gran t ing of wh ich is discretionary. Permits are no rm a l ly not granted for cars o lder than three years and some nonessential commodities. An import quota system app l icab le to most imports is in effect. The quo ta a l loca t ion system is based on 75% of importers' 1995 imports. Imports related to the tourist industry are granted a h igher percentage of the ir 1995 imports, and new importers are allocated SR 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 815 Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports are subject to taxes of up to 200%, with most goods subject to rates ranging between 5% and 30%. The Seychelles Marketing Board has the monopo ly on impor ts of rice, sugar, meat, vegeta- bles, margarine, tomato sauce, an imal feed, o i l, coffee and tea, f ru i ts, f lou r, and c h i li sauce. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be converted through domestic commercial banks, who are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. Surrender requirements are 20% to the foreign exchange queue; 30% to finance essential government imports; and the r em a in ing 50% to be used at the discretion of banks. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents must su r render the proceeds to a commerc ial bank w i t h in 21 days of the transaction. Receipts, w i th the exception of d iv idend remittances and transfers of management fees, may be disposed of free ly. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment No. No. Foreign inves tment is perm i t ted free ly, prov ided that such inves tment does not i n v o l ve ownersh ip of land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 816 SEYCHELLES Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Prov is ions specifi c to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities law s No. Yes. Yes. No. The l iqu id i ty reserve ratio for commercial banks is set at 70% of their deposit l iab i l i t ies, w h i le th e cash reserve ratio is 2.5%. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 No significan t changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean leone. Exchange rate structure Dua l. C lass if icat ion Independen t ly floating Exchange rates are freely determined in the in terbank market. Commercial banks and licensed fore ign exchange bureaus may buy and sell fore ign exchange w i th customers and trade f ree ly among themse lves or w i th the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), the cen tral bank. Effective February 9, 2000, weekly auctions of predetermined amounts of exchange reserves were in i t ia ted, thus end ing the direct allocation of foreign exchange. The BSL de te rm ines the exchange rate to be used in o f f ic ial transactions, i n c l u d i ng the rate for customs va lua t ion purposes, wh ich is based on the weighted average mid-rate of purchases and sales made by commercial banks and fo re ign exchange bureaus du r ing the last f ive bus iness days and at the week ly auction. The o f f ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates are set w i t h in ±1% of the o f f ic ial mid-rate. Foreign exchange bu reaus are l im i t ed to spot transac t ions and are not a l lowed to sell trave ler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requ irements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Reg ional arrangements C lear ing agreements Adm in i s t r a t i on of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones and credited to an ex ternal account in the currency of the expor t ing coun try, in pounds sterling, or in do l lars. Receipts f rom exports to coun tr ies other than Ch ina may be ob ta ined in leones from an ex ternal account in the currency of the impo r t ing coun t ry or in any specified conve r t ib le cu r rency. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. The MOF fo rmu l a t es exchange con trol po l icy in con su l ta t ion w i th the BSL, but the day-to- day adm in i s t r a t ion of exchange con trol is carried out by the BSL w i th the assistance of the commerc ial banks. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Paym ent arrears Off ic ial Yes. 817 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 818 Private SIERRA LEONE Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num i sm a t ic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, or sell certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to ho ld gold in the form of bars or dust without a va l id m ine r 's or dealer's license. Exports of gold requ ire a license. Imports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler requ i re an i n d i v i d u al import license. On leav ing Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Non res ident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Employees on official business may take out up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Resident travelers may take out up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 w i thout restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 w i th supporting documents. The importation of domestic banknotes is l im i ted to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet the ir operational requ iremen ts. Resident Accounts Residents are permitted to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts denominated in any con- ver t ib le currency. These accounts, for wh ich m i n im um balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited w i th funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account ho lder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permitted for current international transactions w i thout pr ior approval from the BSL, subject to f u l f i l l i ng the regulations governing the transactions. Held domestically Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n .r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The same regulations apply as for resident accounts. All documented inward remittances may also be externalized w i thout reference to the BSL. Accounts in leones he ld on behalf of d ip loma t ic missions, UN agencies, and their accred- ited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits into external accounts are vetted by the BSL, and credit balances of the accounts may be used for external payments w i thout reference to the BSL. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency, but approval is required for capital transactions. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 8 19 Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for impor ts No. n . r. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures All app l ica t ions for purchases of fore ign exchange to pay for imported goods must be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone, supported by the fo l low ing documen ts: completed exchange control form, original pro forma invoice, f inal invoice, or ig inal b i ll of lad ing /a irway b i l l, tax clearance certificate, and presh ipment inspection certificate. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the MOF, are subject to presh ipment inspection and price ver if ica t ion by an in terna- t ional company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed w i th importers' own foreign exchange resources are perm i t ted w i th- out LCs established w i th a local commercial bank. Negative list All goods, except m i l i t a ry goods, may be imported free ly w i thout a license. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs A sales tax of 20% of the landed va lue is lev ied on all imports except for capital goods and the ir spare parts, pe tro leum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated busi- nesses are subject to a 3% tax as advance payment of income taxes. On December 1, 2000, a new extended ta r i ff structure went into effect. The new tariff rates apply as fo l lows: 5% on most food items and raw materials, petroleum products, and most consumer durab les; 15% on rice and baby foods; 20% on other food items; and 30% on l u x u ry consumer goods. State import monopo ly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Exporters must repatriate export proceeds w i t h in 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced from external sources are not sub ject to the repatriation requ i remen t. F inanc ing requirements n .r. Documentation requirements Presh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exporters of commercial goods are required to complete export fo rms that must be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are subject to p resh ipment inspection and price verification, wh ich is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the governmen t. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1% before clearing the ir goods th rough customs. Licenses are requ i red on ly for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, v a l id for one year, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the f o l l ow i ng articles are p roh ib i ted: those con ta in ing more than 25% s i lver; those manufac tured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set w i th d iamonds, precious stones, or pearls (exc lud ing personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the equ iv a l ent of $1,000); postage stamps of ph i la te l ic interest; and works of art. Yes. Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an export tax of 3%, based on the va lue in U.S. do l la rs of d iamonds exported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SIERRA LEONE Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Au tho r i ty to prov ide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commer- cial banks. A tax clearance certificate is required for payments and transfers for certain types of cu r rent in terna t ional transactions. The l im it is the equ iva lent of $5,000. Applications for travel allowances in excess of the l im it must be supported by travel documents, e.g., a t icket or passport. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of pensions. Commercial banks may make remittances in favor of nonresident employees of interna- t ional ins t i tu t ions, agencies, or foreign nongovernmental organizations only up to the re- mune ra t ion package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such payments are supported by a va l id work permit, a remuneration package agreement, and a tax clearance certificate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Controls on cap ital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents BSL approval is requ ired before a security registered in or outside Sierra Leone may be transferred to or purchased by a nonresident. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts All funds accruing on such investment, as we ll as the capital upon termination of the in- vestment, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad w i thout permission; for permission to be given, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded w i th domestic resources are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ ire BSL approval. On co l lec t ive inves tment securities These in s t rumen ts are not yet ava i lab le in Sierra Leone. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases w i th f u n ds brought from abroad are allowed. BSL certification is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 821 Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are not yet available in Sierra Leone. Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan in Sierra Leone, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, to nonresident entities. Permission of the BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In addition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the giving or renewal of any guarantee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be covered 100% by the nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments abroad are not allowed. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Permission from the BSL is required. Controls on personal capital movements n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currency. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks do not engage in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in this respect. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks do not engage in th is lending. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. n.a. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Changes During 2000 February 9. Weekly auctions of predetermined amounts of exchange reserves were in i t i- ated, thus end ing the direct allocation of foreign exchange. December 1. A new extended tariff structure went into effect. The new tariff rates apply as fo l lows: 5% on most food items and raw materials, petroleum products, and most con- sumer durables; 15% on rice and baby foods; 20% on other food items; and 30% on luxu ry consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore do l la r. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable at par w i t h o ut charge in Singapore and B runei Darussalam. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The au thor i t ies use the exchange rate as an in termed ia te target, a l low ing the Singapore do l lar to f luc tua te w i t h in an undisclosed target band. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks may hedge the ir exchange r isk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In t e rna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. Yes. Singapore is a member of ASEAN. Singapore has no exchange controls, although the Monetary Au tho r i ty of Singapore (MAS) retains respons ib i l i ty for exchange control matters. The Trade Deve lopment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Indus try administers import and export licensing requ iremen ts for a very small number of products. Financial assets owned by residents of Iraq and Libya, by the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), and by the persons indicted by the In te rna t ional C r im in al T r ibunal for the former Yugos lav ia are blocked. Singapore observes the import and export p r o h i b i t i o ns covered by the UN Security Counc il resolutions. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 822 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Resident Accounts 823 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Those covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments n.a. No. No. Licenses are required for imports of rice. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Very few imports are subject to duty. Singapore is a party to the CEPT scheme for the AFTA. Customs duties are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and automobiles. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer, timber, and rubber. Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quantitative restrictions and other non ta r i ff barriers in impor t ing countries. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 824 SINGAPORE Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Financial institutions may, without prior consultation with the MAS, arrange equity list- ings for nonresidents. The arranging institution must ensure that, if the Singapore dollar proceeds of the initial public offering are to be used offshore, these proceeds must be con- verted into foreign currency upon drawdown by the issuer. Banks may arrange Singapore dollar bond issues for nonresidents as long as the Singapore dollar proceeds from the issuance are either used in Singapore or are swapped or converted into foreign currency upon drawdown by the issuer. Banks are required to no t i fy the MAS of any Singapore dollar bond issues prior to the proposed launch of the issue. All rated and nonrated sovereigns and foreign corporations are allowed to issue Singapore dollar bonds. In the case of unrated corporations, the investor base is restricted to sophisticated investors. Banks may transact in Singapore dollar currency options with other banks and financial institutions in Singapore that are regulated under the MAS on the internationalization of the Singapore dollar. For option transactions w i th nonresidents w i th in and outside Singapore, banks need to ensure that these transactions are supported with unde r ly ing economic and f inanc ial activities in Singapore. There are no controls on over-the-counter interest rate derivatives in Singapore dollars. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in residential and other properties ( inc lud ing vacant land) that have been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential un i ts in bu i ld ings of six or more stories and in approved condom in ium developments. Foreigners who make an economic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 825 contribution to Singapore are given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accommodate their senior personnel. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks Singapore's policy discouraging the internationalization of the Singapore dollar was further relaxed on December 6, 2000. Banks may now (1) transact freely with nonresidents in Sin- gapore dollar asset swaps, subject to certain safeguards; (2) lend Singapore dollars to non- residents for use offshore, as long as the Singapore dollar proceeds are swapped into for- eign currency upon drawdown; (3) transact Singapore dollar currency options freely w i th other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in Singapore that are covered under MAS Notice 757 or its equivalent; (4) lend Singapore dollar-denominated securities to nonresidents, as long as the loan is fu l ly collateralized with Singapore dollar cash or other Singapore dollar assets; (5) transact with nonresidents in Singapore dollar equity derivatives, such as equity war- rants, equ i ty futures, and equity index futures; (6) arrange Singapore do l lar bond issues for nonresidents where the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used outside of Singapore, w i thout MAS consultation —banks must, however, continue to inform the MAS pr ior to the launch of all Singapore dollar bond issues; and (7) lend Singapore dollars to nonresidents for financial investment purposes, subject to safeguards. Banks may extend any amount of Singapore dollar credit facilities to nonresidents in a repurchase agreement of Singapore dollar-denominated securities. For other forms of Singapore dollar credit facilities, banks may lend Singapore dollars to nonresidents for any purpose —whether in Singapore or overseas—as long as the aggregate Singapore dollar credit fac i l i t ies do not exceed S$5 m i l l ion an entity. Where amounts exceed S$5 m i l l ion an entity, banks may extend credit facilities to nonresi- dents for any purpose in Singapore or overseas, subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) For Singapore dollar investments in financial assets and real estate, banks are required to ensure that the Singapore dollar credit facilities are withdrawn when the investments, or any part thereof, are in any way converted into Singapore dollar cash proceeds; and (2) Where the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used offshore, the proceeds should be swapped into foreign currency upon drawdown. In this instance, banks are not allowed to convert the Singapore dollar proceeds into foreign currency via the spot or forward market. Banks and other financial institutions need not consult the MAS if nonbank nonresidents use the proceeds from Singapore dollar credit facilities for preapproved economic activities in Singapore or for hedging the Singapore dollar exchange rate and interest rate risks aris- ing from these economic activities. A bank's lend ing to a single borrower or groups of borrowers, regardless of residency, is subject to a l im it of 25% of its capital. A bank's investments, regardless of currency, are subject to a l im it of 40% of its capital. Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to reserve requirements. Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to the l i q u id asset requirement. Banks are required to seek pr ior approval from the MAS to acquire 20% or more of the shares in any company. Open foreign exchange position limits No l im i ts are set by the MAS, but it reviews the internal control systems of banks to ensure that adequate l im i ts and controls are established for treasury activities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurers may include only 30% of their foreign currency-denominated and overseas assets as the part of their admitted assets that goes into the calculation of the solvency of the fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SINGAPORE Of this, 10% must be foreign currency deposits with an approved f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion, for- eign currency fixed-income securities graded AA and above, and equities listed on any stock exchange. Insurers may inc lude an additional 10% of foreign currency-denominated fixed-income assets that are fu l ly hedged to the Singapore dollar as admitted assets. Insur- ers are allowed to invest assets in relation to the currency of their l iab i l i t ie s. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2000 December 6. Banks were allowed to (1) transact freely w i th nonresidents in Singapore dol- lar asset swaps, subject to certain safeguards; (2) lend Singapore dollars to nonresidents for use offshore, as long as the Singapore dollar proceeds are swapped into foreign currency upon drawdown; (3) transact Singapore dollar currency options freely w i th other f inanc ial institutions in Singapore that are covered under MAS Notice 757 or its equ iva len t; (4) lend Singapore dollar-denominated securities to nonresidents, as long as the loan is fu l ly collat- eralized with Singapore dollar cash or other Singapore dollar assets; (5) transact w i th non- residents in Singapore dollar equity derivatives, such as equity warrants, equ i ty fu tures, and equity index futures; (6) arrange Singapore dollar bond issues for nonresidents where the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used outside of Singapore, w i thout MAS consulta- tion —banks must, however, continue to inform the MAS prior to the launch of all Singa- pore dollar bond issues; and (7) lend Singapore dollars to nonresidents for f inanc ial invest- ment purposes, subject to safeguards. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Slovak Repub l ic is the Slovak koruna. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The Slovak ko runa is set in the fore ign exchange market. The Na t ional Bank of S lovak ia (NBS) no longer guarantees the ko runa 's exchange rate but wou ld in tervene p r im a r i ly to smooth large f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate and if the exchange rate moved to an unacceptable level. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion o f control In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and /or trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. n.a. n.a. No. The Slovak Repub l ic is a member of the CEFTA. The foreign exchange au tho r i t ies are the MOF and the NBS. The MOF exercises j u r i s- d ic t ion in matters re la t ing to other m in i s t r i es and central bodies of the state adm in i s t r a t ion, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, ju r id ical persons established by separate law who are connected through financial ties to the state budget, and local commun i t ies and their budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF ma in- ta ins fore ign exchange records and documen ts pe r ta in ing to interstate negotiations on property c la ims , and im p l em e n ts the resu l ts of these negotiations w i t h in the coun t ry. The NBS exercise s j u r i s d i c t i on p u r s u a nt to res iden ts other than those specified above and to non res iden ts. No. No. Trade in gold is conduc ted ex c lu s iv e ly by banks to the extent stipulated in the ir license. There are reporting obligations on exports and imports of banknotes and coins in Slovak and foreign currenc ies together exceeding Sk 150,000; and on post or other de l ive r ies con- t a i n i ng banknotes and coins together exceeding Sk 20,000. 827 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SLOVAK REPUBLIC On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le to open foreign exchange accounts during their stay abroad; otherwise, approval from the NBS is required. Resident Accounts Held abroad Approval required Yes. A resident may open an account abroad, or enter into a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only af- ter obtaining a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign exchange permit is not required (1) when the resident has a banking or foreign exchange license; (2) in connection with a private ind iv idua l 's stay abroad; (3) if the funds are needed to cover the documented operating costs of the resident's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of depositing the resident's foreign exchange funds if foreign legislation forbids the transfer of such funds to the country; or (5) if the funds are needed for the payment of fees, taxes, and other documented expenses related to the administration and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency This applies to current international transactions and for permitted capital account transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency This applies only to receipts relating to current transactions. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Un t il December 31, 2000, a nonautomatic licensing system was applicable to the fo l low ing goods: (1) brown coal; (2) oil and natural gas imported from Russia; (3) beer and soft d r inks from the Czech Repub l ic; (4) shoes from China; and (5) sugar from the Czech Re- p u b l ic or Poland. Effec t ive January 1, 2001, this system applies to the fo l low ing goods: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 829 Other nontariff measures A system of variable levies accompanies import licensing. (1) beer, soft drinks, and sugar from the Czech Republic; (2) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (3) shoes from China. Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports, except those from the Czech Republic, with whom there is a customs union, and from countries with whom the Slovak Republic has preferential agreements, are subject to an ad valorem tariff. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treat- ment under the GSP; thus, 48 least-developed countries and 98 developing countries are granted 100% and 50% reductions, respectively, from duties applicable to selected com- modities. Imported goods are taxed with a VAT, and there are excise duties on m ineral oils, spirits, wine, beer, and tobacco. From January 1, 2000, imports were subject to a temporary import surcharge of 5% (reduced from 7%). On January 1, 2001, this surcharge was abolished. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to transfer or import all funds acquired abroad in ko runy or fore ign exchange into the country without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, but not later than 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. This duty does not apply to (1) foreign or Slovak currency used by a resident natural person du r ing his/her stay abroad; and (2) re inves tment of earnings from direct investment and from employees' securities, although this is not applicable to cases when such investment requires a foreign exchange permit. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export licenses are required for dangerous chemicals, narcotics, psychotropic sub- stances and their precursors, poisons, firearms and ammunition, and all dual-use goods and technologies. Export licenses are required for (1) a restricted number of agricultural goods; (2) some strategic industrial goods, such as electricity; and (3) scarcely renewable raw materials, such as raw wood, or metal waste. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to allowances, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents must repatriate all proceeds in koruny or foreign exchange without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, but no later than 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 830 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ ire a permit from the NBS and the MOF. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, the fo l low ing transactions do not requ ire a permit: (1) foreign securities accepted for trad- ing on the listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange, and (2) foreign exchange transactions in wh ich the government or the NBS participates. These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or the MOF except for (1) foreign securities accepted for t rad ing on the listed (p r ime) market of a fo re ign stock exchange; (2) purchases of equ i ty secur i t ies by company staff; and (3) fo re ign exchange transactions in wh ich the gove rnment or the NBS participates. Sale or issue abroad by residents U n t il January 1, 2001, these transactions requ ired a foreign exchange pe rm it from the NBS. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Un t il January 1, 2000, these transactions required a foreign exchange perm i t, except (1) when the government or the NBS participated in the transactions and (2) when a resi- dent accepted a financial credit from a nonresident w i th a maturity of one year or more. Effec t ive January 1, 2000, these transactions requ ire a foreign exchange pe rm it from the NBS except for (1) foreign securities accepted for trading on the listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange; (2) government bonds issued by foreign countries; or (3) foreign exchange transac t ions in wh i ch the government or the NBS participates. For issue of mun ic ipal debt securities and debt securities w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than one year or debt securities w i th possible early repayment w i t h in one year after the ir issue, a pe rm it from the F inanc ial Market Au tho r i ty is requ ired. These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS, except for (1) foreign exchange transactions in which the government or the NBS participates; (2) foreign securi- ties accepted for trad ing on the listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange; and (3) government bonds issued by fore ign countries. For issue of m u n i c i p al debt securities and debt securities w i th a ma tu r i ty of less th an one year or debt secur i t ies w i th possible early repayment w i t h in one year after th e ir issue, a pe rm it from the F in an c i al Market Au tho r i ty is requ ired, except for gove rnment bonds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for bonds or o ther debt securities. In add i t ion, issuance of securities is subject to a pe rm it from the MOF. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may perform th is activity through the mediation of the ir branch in the Slovak Repub l ic. However, a permit from the Financial Market Authority is required, except for foreign securities from an issuer whose securities are accepted for t rad ing on the l is ted (pr ime) market of a fo re ign stock exchange. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 831 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents A resident who is an authorized foreign exchange dealer and is not a bank or a securities trader may enter into contracts for dealing in financial derivatives solely on the basis of a foreign exchange permit. A foreign exchange permit is not required when the contract or business is effected with an authorized foreign exchange dealer w i th in the range allowed by the banking or foreign exchange license. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Effective January 1, 2000, a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or MOF was required, except for credits granted by residents of the Slovak Republic to residents of OECD coun- tries. Effective January 1, 2001, a foreign exchange permit is no longer required. Effective January 1, 2000, a foreign exchange perm it from the NBS or MOF was required except when (1) the maturity was one year or more, and/or (2) the credit was granted by a resident of an OECD country to a resident of the Slovak Republic. Effective January 1, 2001, a foreign exchange permit is no longer required. Financial credits Un t il January 1, 2001, a foreign exchange permit from the MOF or NBS was requ ired. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Un t il January 1, 2001, these transactions required a foreign exchange permit. A foreign exchange permit from the NBS and an agreement from the MOF are required, except when the investment is made in an OECD country. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit is required, except for OECD countries. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents, with the exception of Slovak citizens, may acquire real estate in the country solely in the following cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the purpose of establishing diplo- matic representation of a foreign country under conditions of mu tua l i ty; (3) when the real estate acquired is co-owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresi- dent, or when a nonresident acquires real estate from a spouse, sibling, parent, or grandpar- ent; (4) when there is an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonresident for other domestic fixed assets, the price of which, pursuant to separate regulations, does not exceed the price of the original real estate as determined in accordance with separate regulations; (5) when the nonresident has preemptive purchase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was bu i lt by the nonresident on his or her own land; (7) when expressly permitted under separate legislation; (8) effective January 1, 2000, when branches of foreign banks, commercial insurance companies, security traders, and trustees use the real estate in the course of their core business activity; and (9) effective January 1, 2001, if it is a branch of a nonresident domiciled in the EU or an OECD country and needs the real estate for business premises. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Banks must conduct the ir activities in accordance w i th the ir bank ing license. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed w i th in the extent of the banking foreign exchange license. Maintenance of accounts abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad is allowed w i th in the extent of the banking foreign exchange license. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Such lending requires a foreign exchange perm it when the maturity is less than one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 832 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed w i th in the extent of the banking license. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange A foreign exchange permit is required for banks that do not have foreign exchange securities dealings inc luded in their bank ing license. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors A foreign exchange permit from the NBS is required when the banking license does not include dealing in foreign securities except for (1) foreign securities that are accepted for trading on the main market of a foreign stock exchange or (2) government bonds issued by foreign countries. There are limits for investing in foreign companies abroad on the basis of the capital of banks and companies. Above these limits, prior NBS approval is required. The same regulations apply for residents and nonresidents. Five zones—5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%—for investment are defined, for which the investors are required to seek prior NBS approval. The uncovered open foreign exchange position for the Czech koruna, the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc must not exceed 10% of the bank's capital. The uncovered foreign exchange position for other currencies must not exceed 5% of the bank's capital. The total uncovered foreign exchange position of banks must not exceed 25%. For the calculation of capital, the same calculation is used as for capital adequacy. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The Act on Collective Investment limits securities issued by the same issuer to 10% of the who le equity. This is also applicable to collective investment funds. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The same regulations apply as for nonresidents. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Imports and import payments January 1. The import surcharge was reduced to 5%. Changes During 2000 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts January 1. A foreign exchange permit is no longer required to trade locally foreign securi- ties with a maturity of more than one year that are accepted for trading on a listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange; government bonds issued by foreign countries; and foreign exchange transactions in which the government or NBS participates. Controls on credit operations January 1. A foreign exchange permit is no longer required for residents to grant credits to residents of OECD countries when the maturity of the loan is one year or more. Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Branches of foreign financial ins t i tu t ions were allowed to acquire real estate to operate their business. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2001 January I. The nonautomatic licensing system became applicable to the fo l low ing goods: (1) beer, soft drinks, and sugar from the Czech Republic; (2) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (3) shoes from China. January 1. The 5% temporary import surcharge was abolished. January 1. A foreign exchange permit is not required for provisions of f inanc ial credits by residents to nonresidents, acceptance of financial credits by residents from nonresidents, or for guarantees by residents of commitment of nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 833 Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Nonresidents domiciled in the EU or OECD countries who have established a branch in the Slovak Republic may acquire property rights to real estate necessary for the acquisition of business premises for that branch. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of April 30, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Slovenia is the Slovenian tolar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the tolar is determined in the interbank exchange market, where the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may participate. The BOS also may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Ju- ridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks. The BOS pub l ishes daily a moving 60-day average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting pur- poses, as well as for government transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Slovenia maintains a payment agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia. The agreement allows jur id ical persons to conduct transactions through nonresi- dents' accounts. Also, there is an agreement with Italy related to trade between the two border regions. Regional arrangements Slovenia is a member of the CEFTA. Administration of control Exchange control is exercised by (1) the BOS on the foreign exchange operations of banks and foreign exchange offices; (2) the Foreign Exchange Inspectorate w i th in the MOF on foreign exchange and foreign trade operations of natural and jur id ical persons other than banks; and (3) the customs authorities, who ve r i fy that the necessary conditions are met for the cross-border transfers of goods, as well as banknotes, securities, and gold. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, Slovenia ma in ta ins certain restric- tions with regard to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Effective Ju ly 7, 2000, the 834 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 835 UN Security Council resolutions were implemented concerning the freezing of funds and other financial resources in respect to the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), Iraq, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior off ic ia ls. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. n .r. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take abroad up to SIT 500,000 a person. For any amounts exceeding this, prior approval of the BOS is required. There are no l im i ts for do- mestic banks. Residents are allowed to take abroad up to the equ iva lent of SIT 500,000. For any amount in excess of this, prior approval of the BOS is required. There are no l im i ts for banks. For nonresidents, the export of foreign currency is free. In accordance w i th regulations on money-laundering prevention , there are reporting requirements for cash and securities ex- ceeding the equ iva lent of SIT 2.8 m i l l ion for residents and nonresidents. Residents and nonresidents may bring into the country up to SIT 500,000 a person. For any amounts exceeding this, prior approval of the BOS is required. There are no l im i ts for domestic banks. In accordance w i th regulations on money- launder ing prevention, there are reporting requirements for cash and securities exceeding the equivalent of SIT 2.8 m i l l i on for residents and nonresidents. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad All residents may open and operate foreign exchange accounts without restriction after proving their identity. The fo l low ing residents are allowed to maintain accounts abroad: (1) banks; (2) natural persons with a temporary residence in Slovenia based on a valid resident visa or work per- mit with a validity of more than six months; (3) natural persons with a permanent residence in Slovenia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad w i th a validity of more than six months; (4) members of diplomatic missions and consular representatives of Slo- venia; and (5) residents performing services in the international transport of goods and passengers, or services in insurance companies. Other residents may ma in ta in accounts abroad only with BOS approval. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Effective Januar y 1, 2001, tolar cash withdrawals are not limited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 836 SLOVENIA Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are blocked for the implementation of UN resolutions and for reasons of national security in relation to the assets pertaining to entities from the former Federal Re- pub l ic of Yugoslavia. Effective July 7, 2000, in accordance with UN resolutions, accounts are also blocked in respect to the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), Iraq, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Commercial banks may require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction before effecting payment. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of controlling items that effect security and public health, have been retained for specific groups of goods (seeds and p lan t ing materials of agricultural and forest plants, materials for breeding animals, pharma- ceutical products, military equipment, waste, toxic and explosive substances, and precious metals), as well as original sculptures, statues, and antiques, in accordance with interna- tional conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products and clothing. There are annual import quotas, which are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries w i th which Slovenia has free trade agreements. In accordance with the WTO schedule, the bound tariff rate for industrial and agricultural products is 27% except for some agricultural products, for which the bound tariff rate is either 45% or a tariff rate plus a specific duty. However, the conventional rate of duty cur- rently applied is, on average for all sectors, 8.76%; for industry, the rate is 7.68%, and for agriculture, it is 12.6%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be reported to the BOS as credit transactions. F in an c ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons, exports are not restricted, in accordance with the international conventions and codes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 837 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be offered in S loven ia on ly through an authorized par t ic ipant in the securities market. Nonresidents must open custody accounts for purchases of securities, except for purchases (1) from initial public offerings; (2) of shares representing more than 10% of voting rights or more than 10% in equity of a public limited company; or (3) of private placements. Commercial banks must pay a prem ium, established quarterly by the BOS, for the r ight to buy foreign exchange to cover the security position of this custody account. The p rem ium is not charged in connection with the balances held w i th respect to the portfolio invest- ments that, effective January 1, 2001, have been committed for six months or more (pre- v ious ly one year or more). The prem ium is set quarterly by the governor of the BOS; the prem ium set for the first quarter of 2001 is 0.2% of the total balances of the custody account. For sales locally by nonresidents, the same regulations apply as for purchases locally by nonresidents. The issue of securities by nonresidents is governed by the regulations on the securities market. Residents, other than banks, investment funds, and insurance companies, may purchase abroad only (1) securities that are issued by an OECD-member state or in terna t ional f inan- cial institution; (2) securities with m i n im um AA rating (without any restrictions); and (3) other securities traded on stock exchanges that are members of the International Federa- tion of Stock Exchanges (FIBV). In all cases, prior submission of a written statement of risk acquaintance is required. Residents may purchase securities abroad only through a domestic participant in the securities market. Residents, other than banks and savings banks, must, fo l low ing the p r ior approval of the MOF, receive permission from the Secur i t ies Market Agency (SMA) to introduce equity securities abroad. Residents may sell securities abroad solely through authorized participants. Purchases of bonds in private placements are treated as credit transactions; for other catego- ries, the same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. The issue of foreign debt securities is permitted only w i th perm iss ion of the MOF. To re- ceive permission, the issuer must have an adequate f inanc ial rating and the debt secur i t ies must have at least a three-year maturity and must be denominated in tolars. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The BOS sets the conditions for these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The BOS sets the conditions for these transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 838 SLOVENIA On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same regu la t ions app ly as for capital market securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The MOF sets the conditions for the sale of these securities. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Outward direct investment Residents are obliged to report w i t h in 30 days the ou tward direct inves tment to the MOF. Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments are not allowed in the production and trade of m i l i ta ry equ ip- ment, and the provision of mandatory pension and health insurance financed by the budget. If no t restricted by a special law, foreign direct inves tment in other f ie lds is a l lowed free ly. Foreign banks, insurance companies, and stockbroking companies are allowed to open branches in Slovenia. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment The transfer of proceeds is free of any controls after all tax ob l iga t ions in S loven ia have been met. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Nonres iden ts may acqu ire the r ight to own real estate pu r suant to the p rov i s ions of a law or an in terna t ional agreement, under cond i t ion of reciprocity. Foreign states may also acqu i re the right to own real estate used for diplomatic and consular purposes, under the condition of reciprocity. No. Banks are obliged to hold m i n im um reserves with the BOS. The required reserve ratios are applied only on tolar deposits. Banks are required to hold reserves in fore ign exchange in the form of l i q u id assets abroad and investments in foreign currency b i l ls issued by the BOS (at least 60% of the require- ment), to ensure overall l iqu id i ty of payments abroad and to f u l f i ll the ir obligations to hold- ers of deposits in foreign exchange, both domestic and foreign persons. Correspondingly, the volume of household and legal entities, as well as of nonresident deposits in foreign exchange, are taken in to account for the ca lcu la t ion of the prescribed amoun t. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents MOF approva l is requ i red. BOS approval is required. Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts Banks are required to l im it the ir da i ly foreign exchange exposure to 20% of the ir capital and their mon th ly average foreign exchange exposure to 10% of the ir capital. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 839 On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws The Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies specifies that (1) nonres iden ts may own more than 20% of the shares of management companies on ly with the approval of the SMA; (2) nonresidents may own more than 10% of the shares of authorized manage- ment companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouch- ers in the privatization process) only with the approval of the SMA and the M in is try of Economy; and (3) investment funds' investment in foreign securities may not exceed 10% of total investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no l im i ta t ions on foreign ownersh ip of stockbroking companies. A cqu i s i t ions of shares and the establishment of subsidiaries and branches by nonres ident inves tment f i rms are subject to nond isc r im ina to ry pruden t ial rules. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts July 7. UN Security Council resolutions were implemented concerning a freeze on funds and other financial resources in respect to the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. Nonresident accounts July 7. In accordance with UN resolutions, accounts were blocked in respect of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), Iraq, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2001 April 1. Tolar cash withdrawals were no longer limited. Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The m in imum time for which portfolio investments must be committed w i thout incurr ing a p rem ium was reduced to six months from one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 24, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Dur ing June-early November 2000, the Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) pegged the Solomon Islands dollar to the U.S. dollar to reduce exchange uncertainty. In mid-November 2000, the CBSI returned to its policy of using changes in the va lue of a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trading partners as a guide to daily variations of the parity. These variations, however, are programmed to yield modest weekly depreciations of the currency against the U.S. dollar, with daily varia- tions constrained w i th in an undisclosed narrow band. The CBSI provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions w i th the CBSI and the public. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine the ir exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. No. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Islands in any currency. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met only by pay- ments in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. n.a. n.a. No. Exchange control is administered by the CBSI through the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations. The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain transactions. On June 5, 2000, the l im it on payment applications that may be approved by commercial banks was reduced to US$1,000 from US$5,000, or the equ iva len t, w i th the CBSI approv- ing all other bona fide requests for foreign exchange. At the same time, the CBSI intro- duced delays in external payments, w i th payments for amounts greater than US$25,000 but less than US$40,000, or the equivalent, to be made in two equal weekly installments, and those for amounts higher than US$40,000, or the equivalent, to be made in four equal weekly installments. International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On June 30, 2000, restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were removed. 840 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 841 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Foreign currency Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such trans- actions. Commercial mining companies require a license from the Ministry of Natural Resources (MONR) to m ine gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the MONR to mine, buy, or export gold. Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the CBSI, which is not normally given. Nonresidents v is i t ing the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel costs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts where there is a genuine need. Exporters are allowed to hold 20% of their export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts. The account may be opened only in one currency, which is chosen by the exporter. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange accounts may be held, but proof of bona fide need is required. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be held only at authorized foreign exchange dealers. Convertible into foreign currency Balances may be transferred abroad w i th the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. Approval required Blocked accounts CBSI approval is required for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. No mechanism exists for these accounts. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 SOLOMON ISLANDS Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$5,000 without reference to the CBSI. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Effec t ive January 1, 2001, the levy on imports was eliminated and the max imum import duty was reduced to 20%. There is no duty on imports from Melanesian countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within three months of the date of export. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an authorized dealer; exporters are allowed to retain 20% of their export earnings. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Goods for export are inspected by customs officers. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Residents may export goods, other than round logs, without exchange control formalities, but they must comply with the terms of a general authorization issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs require specific authority from the CBSI and a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation, and Environment. If exporters cannot meet the conditions of a general authorization (repatriation, surrender, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for specific authorization. Authorization is not needed for goods valued under SI$250 in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, inc lud ing most personal effects of ind iv idual travelers. Effective January 4, 2000, export duties on palm oil, copra, cocoa, and reef fish were re- moved. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 35% if valued up to SI$250 per cubic meter and 38% if of greater value. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is readily granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas and for pay- ments of services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to nonresidents from companies in the Solomon Islands, provided it can be proved they are properly due. L im i ts on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments are based on a previously approved repayment schedule. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Approval is norma l ly given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be submitted to an authorized dealer, and presentation of passports and airline tickets is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 843 Personal payments Prior approval Approval is readily granted. In the case of medical costs, the application must be supported by an invoice from the medical practitioner, or from an educational ins t i tu t ion for studies abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Approval is readily granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents. Yes. Yes. Approval is read i ly granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Approval is required for the disposal of proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment CBSI approval is required for all capital and money market transactions. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Only the acceptance of guarantees, securities, and financial backup fac i l i t ies from nonresidents is not controlled. Inves tment by resident ind iv idu a ls or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations, inc lud ing the l ike ly benefit to the Solomon Islands. Inward direct investment Approval by the Foreign Investment Board (FIB) is required for initial or increased foreign investment. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Approval is readily given for the transfer of proceeds. Sales of investments by nonresidents to either residents or nonresidents require FIB approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Only the transfer of assets into the country by immigrants is not controlled. Borrowing abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 844 SOLOMON ISLANDS Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements The l iqu id asset requirement is 7.5%. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set at SI$2.5 million for each commercial bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies must obtain permission from the Commissioner of Insurance to remit reinsurance premiums abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2000 June 5. The CBSI introduced delays in external payments, with payments for amounts greater than US$25,000 but less than US$40,000, or the equivalent, to be made in two equal weekly installments, and those for amounts higher than US$40,000, or the equivalent, to be made in four equal weekly installments. June 5. The limit on payment applications that may be approved by commercial banks was reduced to US$1,000 from US$5,000, or the equivalent, with the CBSI approving all other bona fide requests for foreign exchange. June 30. Restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were removed. Exports and export proceeds January 4. Export duties on palm oil, copra, cocoa, and reef fish were removed. Imports and import payments January 1. The levy on imports was eliminated and the max imum import duty was reduced to 20%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali sh i l l ing. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, comprising the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and the two commercial banks operating as authorized dealers. The rate in this market applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the government; and (2) a free market, in wh ich the exchange rate is freely negotiated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali shilling is determined in the free market by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified cur- rencies (dollars, Djibouti francs, euros, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the CBS. n.a. Yes. Residents may hold and acquire, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the CBS; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on be- half of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down w i th in one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold 845 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 SOMALIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted that originate in member countries of the EU are exempt from customs du ty; impor ts from elsewhere are subject to a 10% duty. Nonresidents may br ing in with them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonres ident Somalis and foreign national travelers w i thout diplomatic status are required, upon the ir arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Com- mercial and Savings Bank, which acts on behalf of the CBS. Resident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments as we ll as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents tak ing place through external accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers ho ld ing export/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise import payments. Held domestically Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in dollars may be opened w i th the CBS by foreign embassies, international institutions, and nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports All payments for private imports must be effected through LCs. Private importers may establish LCs for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange invo lved is kept in a suspense account u n t il the t ime of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirements Yes. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A non-interest bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is requ ired to open LCs for p r iva te sector imports; the deposit is retained u n t il the LCs are settled. Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 847 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, med i- cal and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those p roh ib i ted for reasons of p u b l ic safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must su r render the rema inder to the CBS or to au thor ized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70% of their export earnings. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements For exports other than those made under LC arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100% of the va lue of exports is requ ired. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT. The exportation of various types of ivory, h ides and skins, and m in e r- als is subject to prior approval. Yes. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of m i n im um export prices used for purposes of duty co l lec t ion. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments to Israel are prohibited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for curren t inv is ib les through external accounts, as we ll as through the commerc ial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Yes. Informa t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and deprec ia t ion of direct investments. Yes. The CBS provides foreign exchange on ly for o f f ic ial travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased on ly from holders of external accounts, w i th the approval of the CBS. Yes. There is a l im it of $200 a person a t r ip for business and tou r ist trave l. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The l im it is $3,000 a year for medical costs. The l im it is $1,000 a year for studies abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases for med ical costs and studies abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 848 SOMALIA Foreign workers' wages Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50%. Yes. Informa t ion is not available on the payment of subscription and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers w i th in five business days of their receipts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 849 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments must be approved by the Foreign Investment Board, wh ich reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, within a 60-day period. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatri- ated f ive years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical as- sets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned-five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or l iqu ida t ion of assets are freely transferable after taxes are paid. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1998-2000 The IMF has not received from the authorities the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system since 1998. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of South Africa is the South African rand. Certain gold coins, including the Krugerrand, are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rand is determined in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins w i th respect to exchange transactions, but may execute transactions in the exchange market, which are typically dollar/rand transactions. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any f irm foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or from nonresidents that arise from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Subject to certain l im i ta t ions, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) may authorize requests to buy dollars out- r ight forward. The SARB participates only in the short-term (maturities not exceeding 12 months) forward market on its own initiative and at prices quoted in the market by authorized dealers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia, but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA w i th the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland). L i lan- geni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Nam ib ia dollar banknotes issued by Nam ib ia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. The rand may not be used in any foreign exchange transaction, except as ou t l ined above. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 850 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 8 51 Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions South Africa is part of the CMA. Payments w i th in the CMA are unrestricted. On Janua ry 1, 2000, the EU-Sou th A f r ican Free Trade Agreement entered in to force. Exchange l icens ing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treasury, wh ich has delegated t h is au tho r i ty to the SARB; in turn, the SARB has permitted dealers to deal w i th most transactions w i th- out prior reference to the SARB. South A f r ica ma in ta ins res tr ic t ions on current payments and transfers to Iraq, amended as per UN reso lu t ion. Restrictions on the transfer of funds to the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghan is tan) and to the UNITA movement in Angola are also in place. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents of South A f r ica may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for num isma t ic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indu s t r ial and professional users are a l lowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewe l ry. Gold producers may elect to sell the ir total ou tput to approved counterparties, p rov ided the SARB has g iven the neces- sary exemp t ion from the relevant exchange control regulations. Th is inc ludes sales to for- eign counterparties. The current exchange control regulations pertaining to the repatriation of export proceeds rema in applicable to gold exports. The m i nt strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, wh i ch are legal tender, w i thout a face va lue, and these are made ava i lab le in l im i ted numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Au tho r ized dealers have been permitted by the SARB to approve exports of jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 50,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewe lry w i ll be brought back to South A f r ica on the trave ler's re turn); and for exports of gold jewe l ry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers, subject to a wr i t ten declaration that the articles are in f u l ly manu- factured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are a l lowed to export currency coins, inc lud ing certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. Banknotes up to R 5,000 may be exported, but th is amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The l im i ta t ion does not app ly to m igrant workers r e t u r n i ng to ne ighbo r ing coun tr ies, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amoun ts in bank- notes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Na- mibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica may take w i th them up to R 5,000 in SARB banknotes. South A f r ican bankno tes repatriated from Angola, Botswana, the Democratic R e p u b l ic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania, Zambia, and Z imbabwe may be remitted upon the p rov i s ion of documentary ev idence that they were not exported from South A f r ica in con traven t ion of the exchange control regulations. The con s ignment of banknotes must be accompanied by the confirmation of the repatriating bank that the bank- notes were acqu ired from bona fide travelers from South A f r ica in amoun ts not exceeding R 5,000 a traveler. Residents and contract workers leav ing South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out th e ir a l lowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leav ing South Afr ica may take w i th them any amount of foreign banknotes brought into the coun t ry or ob- tained through the disposal of ins trumen ts of exchange brought into and converted in South A f r ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 852 SOUTH AFRICA On imports Domestic currency The l im it on banknotes that may be imported from countries outside the CMA is R 5,000. There are no l im i ta t ions on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Natural persons may hold foreign currency deposits with authorized dealers. The require- ment to complete forms A and E in respect of sales and purchases of foreign exchange is R 50,000. The R 750,000 that na tural persons may invest abroad may also be held in a domestic currency account. Yes. Approval is granted based on the merit of the application, and in most circumstances on ly if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be fac i l i- tated. South Afr ican natural persons may invest abroad up to an amount of R 750,000 and may retain abroad foreign-earned income. No prior approval is required to open foreign bank accounts for these purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers are requ ired to open separate nonresident accounts on behalf of non- resident c l ien ts in order to distinguish between normal clearing accounts and foreign ex- change trad ing accounts. The aim of this requirement is to isolate these transactions for monitoring purposes and does not affect the transferability of funds. Foreign currency accounts may be opened for nonresidents and the transferability of the funds is not restricted. The requirement to complete forms A and E for both sales and purchases of foreign exchange is R 50,000. These accounts may be credited w i th all authorized payments by residents, w i th the proceeds of sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers, and w i th payments from other nonresident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by trans- fer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders res id ing in South A f r ica for short periods. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange con- trol restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the t ime of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer and used w i th in certain limits for the ho lde r 's l i v i ng expenses wh i le v i s i t ing South Africa, for other specified payments to resi- dents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 853 Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance paymen t requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Payments are allowed before the date of sh ipment or dispatch, except for capital goods imports. Authorized dealers may permit, w i thout the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers requ ire it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Importers are automatically granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufac tured in these countries, w i th the exception of a l im i ted range of agr icu l tural products from Ma lawi and Zimbabwe. The negative list includes all used goods, inc lud ing waste and scrap; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks; dairy products; dried fruit; black tea; certain vegetables and agricultural products; wines; mineral fuels; radioactive chemicals; new pneumatic tires; gold; certain minerals; firearms; gambling machines; ozone-depleting substances; and footwear and footwear components. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Sub-directorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid fo r imports from any country. Import quotas apply to certain agr icu l tural and a numb er of manu fac tu red products, inc lud ing clothing and textiles imported from Zimbabwe supported w i th a Quota and Or ig in Certificate issued by the M in is try of Industry and Commerce of Zimbabwe. Tariff rates range up to 69%, wh i le a 14% VAT on imports from Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland is in effect. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be rem i t ted to South A f r ica w i t h in 30 days of accrual. Exporters may retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in cus- tomer foreign currency accounts w i th authorized dealers. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be offered for sale w i th in six months of the date of shipment or 30 days of the date of accrual, whichever is sooner. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the f u ll proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds. Authorized dealers may perm it exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, prov ided the credit is necessary in that particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. All exports over R 50,000 must be supported by a declaration, irrespective of the ir country of destination. Certain agricultural and manufactured goods exported outside the SACU require export permits. In addition to an export permit, military equipment, firearms, and ammun i t ion requ ire an export license issued by the Department of Defense. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 SOUTH AFRICA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Most l im i ts have been removed. Documentary ev idence must be produced at the t ime of app ly ing for fore ign currency. Au thor ized dealers may perm it the transfer of comm iss ions against documen tary ev i- dence con f i rm ing the amount invo lved, provided the rate of comm iss ion is no rmal in the particular trade. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of di- rect investments. Effective February 21, 2001, South African residents traveling abroad for either business or holiday are allowed R 140,000 for each person 12 years or older, and R 45,000 for each ch i ld under 12 years, a calendar year, w i thout any daily l im i t, irrespective of the country of destination (these amounts had been raised, on February 23, 2000, to R 130,000 from R 100,000 and to R 40,000 from R 30,000, respectively). Corporations q u a l i fy for a global travel allowance of R 2,000,000 for a calendar year. Indicative limit s/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above l im i ts may be p rov ided w i th the approval of the SARB. Personal payments Quantitative limits Cred it card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Effective February 21, 2001, limits regarding l iv ing expenses for students were set at R 140,000 a year or R 280,000 if the student is accompanied by a spouse (these l im i ts had been raised, on February 23, 2000, to R 130,000 from R 120,000 and to R 260,000 from R 240,000, respectively). On the same date, the student holiday allowance was increased to R 45,000 or R 90,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously raised to R 40,000 from R 35,000 and to R 80,000 from R 70,000, respectively). Prior approval is required for amounts exceeding R 7,000 a month for a receiving fam i ly. There are no l im i ts set for alimony payments, but a court order is required. Authorized dealers may effect ma in- tenance transfers at a rate not exceeding R 7,000 for a receiving fam i ly un it a mon th, provided the proposed beneficiaries are either the father, mother, brother, or sister of the applicant and are in necessitous circumstances. Prior approval is required for amounts exceeding this l im i t. Approval is not required in respect of travel expenditures. Expend i tu re may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Au tho r ized dealers may pe rm it techn ical service fees, legal fees, and court costs incu r red ou ts ide the CMA against the production of documen tary evidence con f i rm ing the amount invo lv ed. Au thor ized dealers may grant approval for royalty payments, provided the De- partment of Trade and Indus t ry has approved the re levant royalty agreement. Au tho r ized dealers may also perm it the remittance of profits and d iv idend s, p rov ided it does not in- vo lve excessive use of local credit fac i l i t ies. Income earned from securities he ld by non- residents is freely transferable to the ir country of residence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements South A f r ican residents (private ind iv idua l s) earn ing income abroad from any source other than merchandise exports may retain those funds abroad. Corporate en t i t ies are requ i red to rem it ea rn ings w i th in 30 days of accrual. En t i t ies may retain the proceeds of services ren- dered for 180 days after accrual in cus tomer fo re ign cu r rency accounts w i th authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 855 Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Only the issue of securities by nonres iden ts requires prior exchange control approval, which is not normally granted. Purchase abroad by residents Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 750,000 foreign invest- ment limit. Resident institutions may acquire investments as part of their approved portfolio investments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to six months. Banks may in certain circumstances allow a further extension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control ap- proval. In respect of services, payment has to be received under the terms of the contract between the parties w i th in a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended without prior approval. However, nonresident wholly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total share- holders' investment (i.e., the paid-up equity capital; preference shares; undistributed profits; shareholders' loans from abroad; and, in certain instances, the hard core of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 856 SOUTH AFRICA To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment shareholders' trade credit). The ability to borrow locally, which is generally granted, increases with the size of local participation by a set formula. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Firms are allowed to borrow abroad using their South African balance sheet as collateral in cases where the investment required exceeds the R 500 m i l l ion l im it (R 750 million in respect of Africa), as described under outward direct movements. Guarantees or sureties for f inanc ial loans require approval but not for trade transactions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Requests by companies are considered in light of national interest, such as the benefit to South Africa's international reserves by, for exam- ple, generating exports of goods and services. Effective February 21, 2001, companies may be allowed to transfer up to R 500 m i l l ion (previously R 50 m i l l ion) to finance approved investments abroad; and up to R 750 million (previously R 250 m i l l ion) in African coun- tries other than Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland, where funds already flow freely. If investment exceeds these limits, corporations are allowed to transfer additional foreign currency of up to 10% of the cost. Ten percent of the borrowing raised abroad may be transferred out of South Africa. Individuals over 18 years of age may invest up to R 750,000 overseas or in a foreign cur- rency account in South Africa, provided they obtain a tax clearance certificate from the South African Revenue Service. There are no limits on the type of investment and no requirement to advise the authorities of how the funds are used. Income earned abroad and own foreign capital introduced into the Republic on or after July 1, 1997, by private ind iv idual residents in South Africa may be retransferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied that the income and/or capital had previously been converted to rand, by viewing documentary evidence confirming the amounts involved. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 750,000 foreign investment limit . Other purchases require prior exchange control approval. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of loans w i th in a l im it of R 25,000 an appli- cant dur ing a calendar year. Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are generally not permitted. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of the loan do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of monetary gifts, inc lud ing loans referred to above, w i th in a l im it of R 25,000 an applicant dur ing a calendar year. Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from estates may be remitted abroad. Authorized dealers may provide immigrants with exchange to repay loans received in their previous country of domicile for the specific purpose of financing their relocation to South Africa, provided documentary evidence of the debt is available and the imm ig rant is not in possession of foreign currency to repay the debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 857 Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Emigrants are limited to a onetime total of R 400,000 a family or R 200,000 an individual, but this must include any previous investments overseas. All other assets remain blocked in South Africa. The emigrant is subsequently able to repatriate the annual income from those blocked assets, but is prohibited from exiting the assets, either by sale to South African residents or by asset swaps with either a foreign or South African counterpart. Authorized dealers may also authorize the export of any household and personal effects, motor vehi- cles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (excluding coins that are legal ten- der in the Repub l ic) for a fam i ly un it or single person emigrating, w i th in the overall insured va lue of R 1 m i l l ion. All borrowing abroad by residents requires exchange control approval. Banks may contract short-term working capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may open nostro accounts at the ir discretion. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000, provided that the total credit made available to an individ- ual from any source does not exceed this amount. Exchange control approval is required for facilities exceeding this amount. Foreign investors are allowed to borrow domestically an amount of rand equal to the value of the foreign exchange they brought into South Africa. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Africa. Reserve requirements on all deposit accounts held by residents or nonresidents and de- nominated in either rand or foreign exchange are 2.5% of total deposit liabilities, reduced with specific items. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of adjusted total liabilities. Investment regulations Investment in immovab le property and shares and loans or advances to certain subs id iar ies are limited to 100% of capital plus reserves. Abroad by banks Prior approval of the Registrar of Banks and Exchange Control is required. In banks by nonresidents No approval is required if the shareholding is less than 15% of the bank's issued capital. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 10% of net qu a l i fy ing capital p lus reserves, for both resident and nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. U n t il February 21, 2001, the exchange control authority could authorize up to 15% of total assets for each qua l ify ing institution (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and fund managers) to be invested abroad by way of an asset swap. Effective February 21, 2001, the use of the asset swap mechanism by institutional investors was terminated. The exchange control authority may now permit long-term insurers, pension funds, and un it trusts (through trust management companies) to make foreign currency transfers in 2001 of up to 10% of the net inflow of funds during 2000 to acquire foreign portfolio investments, sub- ject to the overall l im it of 15% of total assets in respect of long-term insurers and pension funds and 20% of total assets for un it trusts (through un it trust management companies). These latter l im i ts were established on February 23, 2000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 SOUTH AFRICA Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to institutional investors Changes During 2000 January L The EU-South African Free Trade Agreement entered into force. February 23. The l im it on allowances for l iv ing expenses of students abroad was increased to R 130,000 a year (R 260,000 if accompanied by the spouse). The student holiday allow- ance was raised to R 40,000 (R 80,000 if accompanied by the spouse). February 23. The limits for travel were increased to R 130,000 for an adult and R 40,000 for a child under 12. February 23. The l im it on outward portfolio investment was changed to 15% and based on all assets, from solely South African assets. Un it trust management companies no longer qua l i fy for this treatment. Foreign currency transfers are allowed up to 10% of the net in- flow of funds (previously 5%), inclusive of SADC countries. Changes During 2001 February 21. The limits on allowances for l iv ing expenses of students l iv ing abroad were increased to R 140,000 a year (R 280,000 if accompanied by a spouse) and the student holiday allowance was raised to R 45,000 (R 90,000 if accompanied by a spouse). February 21. The l im i ts for travel were increased to R 140,000 for an adu lt and R 45,000 for a child under 12. February 21. The l im i ts on company transfers for outward direct investment were raised to R 500 m i l l ion from R 50 m i l l ion generally and to R 750 m i l l i on from R 250 m i l l ion to most African countries. February 21. The mechanism for asset swaps by institutional investors was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: J u ly 15, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Spain is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender rema ins the Spanish peseta u n t il March 1, 2002, when the euro w i ll become the sole legal tender. Between Janua ry 1 and Feb rua ry 28, 2002, both the Spanish peseta and the euro w i ll circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Spain participates in a currency un ion (EMU) comp r is ing 12 members of the EU: Aus tr ia, Belgium, F in land, France, Ge rmany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ire land, I ta ly, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. In te rnal conversion rates in respect to the national currencies of EMU participants are fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro is market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Spanish peseta is set at Ptas 166.386 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to in te rvene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in external exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and fu tures in pesetas are traded in major f inanc ial markets. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control No. n.a. n.a. No. The Pen insu lar Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Me l i l la constitute a single exchange control territory. The Directorate-General of Foreign Inves tment and Commercial Policy has the power to authorize, v e r i fy, control, and mon i tor foreign investments and economic transactions, collections, paymen ts, and transfers w i th the rest of the wor ld. The Directorate-General of the Treasury and F inanc ial Policy has au thor i ty to conduct the inves t iga t ions and inspec- t ions requ ired to prepare or change the policy applied in matters concerning exchange con- trol as we ll as to in i t ia te, address, and ru le on penalties applied w i th regard to exchange control. In add i t ion, the Bank of Spain (BOS) has authority in a numb er of areas, such as the fo l low ing: (1) g ran t ing authorization to banks, savings and loans, and other f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s, when requ i red, to transact business on the fore ign exchange market, and regis- te r ing i n s t i t u t i o ns open to the pub l ic to engage in fore ign exchange activities; (2) rece iv ing in fo rma t ion on co l lec t ions, paymen ts, and transfers abroad in wh i ch registered in s t i tu t ions are i n v o l v e d, and i s su ing in s t ruc t ions pe r ta in ing to the content, procedures, and f requency for such repor t ing; and (3) rece iv ing in fo rma t ion on f inanc ial and comme rc ial c red i ts and loans, accounts abroad he ld by residents in Spain, and ne t t ing operations. 859 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 SPAIN International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Spain maintains certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect to Iraq, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), and the UNITA movement in Angola. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were lifted on November 10, 2000. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of banknotes in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 1 m i l l ion must be declared. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to these accounts may be freely made. However, account holders are required to report the opening of such accounts and to provide information pertaining to credit and debit activities occurring in the accounts. Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 861 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of certain defense materials require prior authorization from the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers According to the Royal Decree on Economic Foreign Transactions, all payments, re- ceipts, and transfers between residents and nonresidents must be declared to the deposit institutions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents (individuals or legal entities other than registered institutions) are required to file reports to the BOS of loans with a maturity of more than one year granted to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Residents other than registered institutions are required to f i le reports to the BOS for credits w i th a maturity of more than one year. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS. To residents from nonresidents Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS. Controls on direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 SPAIN Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Controls on personal cap ital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A l though residents are free to clear credits and debits w i th nonres iden ts and to rece ive or grant loans, credits, and financing or postpone payments from or to the same, they must report such transactions to the BOS. Borrowing abroad Financial credits obtained should be reported to the BOS. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer in fo rma t ion, and pub l ica t ions applicable to credit in s t i tu t ion s. Yes. Commun i ty investors, even though they may be authorized credit ins t i tu t ions in other EU countries, must ob ta in pr ior adm in is t ra t ive notice. Noncommun i ty in s t i tu t ions may be denied the authorization if commun i ty credit institutions do not enjoy reciprocity in the country of origin of the investor. Regulations d i f fer according to the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws A new law on securities markets is in effect, ha rmon iz ing Spanish rules w i th the relevant EU directives. Arrangements for payments and receipts November 10. The restrictions on payments and transfers imposed on the Federal R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia were l i f ted. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Until January 22, 2001, when the practice was discontinued, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) announced in advance the daily spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar against the rupee for transactions with commercial banks w i th in specific margins. The CBSL then bought and sold the dollar on a spot basis at those rates. Effective June 20, 2000, these margins were increased to 5% from 2% and on November 3 and December 11, 2000, to 6% and 8%, respectively; while effective January 12, 2001, they were increased still fur ther to 10%. Effective January 23, 2001, the exchange rate is determined by supply and demand in the market and the CBSL announces the weighted average interbank rate on a daily basis and participates in buying and selling foreign exchange at or near market prices. Based on this information, the exchange rate has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. No. No. Forward sales were permitted up to a period of 360 days. Effective January 29, 2001, this period was reduced to 180 days, applicable to payments and receipts in foreign exchange in respect of trade in goods and services. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transactions are freely determined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions and settlements are effected in dollars. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees provided that the supplier maintains a nonresident rupee account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior approval of the CBSL. n.a. n.a. Sri Lanka is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through authorized commercial banks in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange (COE). Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the COE. The Board of Investments (BOI) handles all applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka whenever special concessions are sought. 863 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 864 SRI LANKA General permission has been granted for investment by nonresidents in the equity capital of rupee companies, subject to certain exclusions and limitations, provided such investments are made through share investment external rupee accounts (SIERA). International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Sri Lanka nationals may each take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes only at exit points, against original encashment documents issued by the authorized dealers or money changers, and may be taken out. Ind iv idua ls may take out foreign currency for travel purposes but are required to declare it to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Sri Lanka nationals may each bring into Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Travelers must declare at entry foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000 or its equiva- lent. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, a declaration has to be made, irrespective of the amount. Prescribed currencies may not be imported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts with a m in imum bal- ance equivalent to $500 in designated currencies, provided the funds do not relate to any transactions. These accounts may be maintained even if the balance falls below $500. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Sri Lankans employed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lanka origin who are employed and reside abroad may maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in designated foreign currencies. Credits to these accounts are limited to remittances from employment earnings abroad, foreign exchange earnings received in foreign exchange and brought into the country by the above-mentioned individuals, approved investment incomes, and interest payments on the accounts. Balances in NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises ap- proved by the BOI, with some exemptions. Dividends and profits earned and sale proceeds from such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the COE. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 13 designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic un it of the bank and not by its foreign currency banking un it (FCBU). The accounts may be current, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts SRI LANKA 865 savings, or deposit accounts, but w i thdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the COE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to out- ward remittances and to payments after converting into Sri Lanka rupees. These accounts may be held by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) through (3), credits from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements or outward remittances may be effected freely; however, local credits to these require prior approval. Accounts in category (4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the COE. Debits to such accounts for local disbursements may be freely effected without prior approval. Interest on blocked funds is permitted for outward remittances net of taxes. However, local credits to these accounts and debits for outward remittances in respect to capital funds over a ceiling of SL Rs 1 m i l l ion a fam i ly (SL Rs 750,000 a person) require prior approval. In category (5), foreign banks may open and operate nonresident accounts with local commercial banks w i thout pr ior approval of the COE. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. These accounts are used to hold funds, usually of nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them in respect to pensions and income tax refunds. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Authorized dealers may approve applications to rem it foreign exchange or to credit non- resident accounts against applications for the opening of an LC, documents against pay- ment (DP), or documents on acceptance (DA) terms, and against proof of a valid import license, where applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $3,000 (c.i.f.) with respect to raw materials and spare parts for the use of a particular industry or for personal use. Advance payment requirements Advance payments for personal imports are limited to $7,500. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports may be effected against DP and DA terms and LCs. Inspection is required for certain consumer goods. Yes. About 332 items at the six-digit level of the harmonized system code remained under im- port controls at the end of 2000, mostly for public health, public morals, environmental, or national security reasons. Effective February 29, 2000, license requirements were removed for wheat, meslin, maize, wheat flour, meslin flour, and certain items used in the preparation of animal fodder, wh i le other selected items used in the preparation of animal fodder, as well as parts and accesso- ries for motor vehicles, and some vehicles were subject to import licensing. On Ju ly 21, 2000, all varieties of rice and paddy were subject to licensing to protect domes- tic producers against lower prices. Furniture used in medical, surgical, dental, or veterinary professions; metal, plastic, and wooden furn i ture and mattress support articles; and similar fu rn i tu r e, such as quilts, cushions, and pillows, were subject to import controls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 866 SRI LANKA Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff structure consists of two band rates: 10% and 25%, although the rate for agricul- tural products remains at 35%. The concessionary rate of 5% applied on industrial raw material and machinery manufac- tured outside of Sri Lanka is gradually being eliminated. In an effort to s imp l i fy the taxa- tion on petroleum products, import duties on crude oil have been removed; these products are now subject on ly to the excise duty on f in ished products. A few import items remain outside the two-band system. The import du ty on selected agri- cu l tu ral products, such as rice, big onions, green grams, and cowpeas, remained at the rate of 35%. Items considered essential for the maintenance of m i n i m um l i v i ng standards are kept at zero. A limited number of items —namely potatoes, sugar, tobacco, and l iquo r— were under specific rates outside the two-band system. A stamp duty of 2% is levied on LCs for certain imports. A national security levy of 5.5% and a goods and services tax of 12.5% are levied on imports. On May 11, 2000, the national security levy was raised to 6.5% from 5.5%. State import monopoly Imports of certain items, inc lud ing guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and petroleum products are restricted to government or state corporations. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free either to repatriate export proceeds and have such proceeds credited to any rupee account and/or an exporters' foreign currency account with the Domestic Bank- ing Un it (DBU) or the FCBU of a bank in Sri Lanka or to retain export proceeds abroad in any commercial bank, provided monies in such accounts are not used for acqu is i t ion of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payment agreements and to exports made to a member country of the ACU. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, t imber, ivory and ivory prod- ucts, and passenger vehicles registered in Sri Lanka prior to 1945. On J u ly 21, 2000, fu rn i- ture used in medical, surgical, dental, or veterinary professions; metal, plastic, and wooden fu rn i tu re and mattress support articles; and s im i lar furn i ture, such as qu i l ts, cushions, and pillows, were subject to export controls. Export quotas are maintained on textiles and apparel used to imp lement bilateral quotas under the MFA. The Textile Quota Board allocates quotas among exporters based pr imar i ly on their past export performance. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Ind ica t ive l im i ts /bona f ide tests are applied to all these transactions. Trade-related payments Remittances of p rem iums for general insurance are permitted, subject to the coun t ry 's insurance regulations. Remittances of p r em iums for reinsurance are perm i t ted. Indicative limits/bona fide test For commissions, reasonable amounts are allowed for export orders secured th rough agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Investment-related payments Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of d iv idends to nonres ident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior approval if they relate to the year of application and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. However, relevant documentation is required to rem it in te r im profits or d iv idends, or f inal profits or d iv id end s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 867 Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meeting expenses and paying taxes and levies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes and personal expenses other than capital expenses and imports of goods in commercial quantities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Funds retained abroad w i th COE permission and export proceeds permitted to be retained abroad should not be used for the acquisition of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Except for the local purchase by nonresidents of shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature, all capital market securities and money market instruments are controlled. Investments are permitted in shares by nonresidents of up to 100% of the equ i ty capital of existing listed and un l is ted pub l ic companies, subject to certain exclusions and l im i ta t ions, without prior approval, in terms of general permission granted through a SIERA maintained at a commercial bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Investments abroad by residents are not permitted unless there is evidence for a reasonable net return on the investments. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 868 SRI LANKA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All transactions in derivatives and other instruments are controlled. All licensed banks are granted general permission to provide rupee credit facilities to non- resident-controlled companies incorporated locally. However, companies approved under Section 17 of the BOI Act are subject to certain prudential limits that were assigned to each bank. Effective April 4, 2000, development banks were permitted to lend in foreign cur- rency to exporters on their foreign credit lines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that such investments will promote the country's exports and provide other benefits, such as transfer of technology and marketing expertise. Foreign investment is permitted on the basis of the type of activity. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in local companies up to 100% of the issued capital of such companies, except in certain excluded and restricted activities. Effective March 7, 2000, investments in the banking sector are permitted up to 60% of the equity capital (previously 49%); in insurance businesses, up to 90% (previously 49%); and in the financial services sector, up to 49%, except for certain services. In the case of stockbroking, this limit could be up to 100% if permission is granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Foreign investments in unit trusts are permitted up to 100%, provided the trust deed limits invest- ment in government securities to 20%. Excluded areas of investment include the following: money lending, pawnbroking, retail trading with capital less than $1 m i l l ion, personal services providers other than for production of goods for export and tourism, and coastal fishing. The restricted sectors are the production of goods for export under international quota restrictions; growing and primary processing of cocoa, coconuts, rice, rubber, spices, sugar, and tea; primary processing of nonrenewable natural resources; timber processing industries using local timber; deep sea fishing; water supply; construction of residential bu i ld ings; telecommunications; mass media; mass transportation; professional services; freight; travel; shipping agencies; and education. In these sectors, investments are permitted up to 40% of the equity capital of such companies. In the areas of air transportation, coastal shipping, production of energy and power, large-scale mining of gems, and lotteries, foreign investment is permitted up to a percentage approved by the government of Sri Lanka or the relevant authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on liquidation of direct investment SRI LANKA 869 Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of approved investments, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in f u l l. Expatriates leav ing Sri Lanka to take up residence in the country of their permanent dom ic i le are permitted to transfer in f u ll assets representing their retirement funds and savings. Foreign nationals who have operated small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain l im i ts. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Controls on real estate transactions All real estate transactions are controlled. Controls on personal capital movements All personal capital movements are controlled. Transfer of assets Remittances of l i fe insurance p rem iums in foreign currency are not permitted. Transfer abroad by emigrants At the t ime of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by the normal direct route. Foreign exchange equ iva lent up to $2,000 a person may also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects of reason- able amounts plus jewelry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married female, SL Rs 60,000 for unma r r ied females, SL Rs 30,000 for female emigrants under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for male emigrants may be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 an ind iv idua l, up to a max imum l im it of SL Rs 1 m i l l ion a fam i ly unit. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are required to report foreign exchange position limits daily. Reporting requirements with respect to fund transfers through electronic fund transfer cards are in effect. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from their domestic currency banking un i ts to exporters who are in a position to pay their loans in fore ign exchange earnings. Development banks are also permitted to extend foreign currency loans to exporters based on their foreign credit lines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On March 7, 2000, the l im it on foreign ownership of commercial banks was raised to 60% from 49%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 SRI LANKA Provisions specific to institutional investors All of these transactions are controlled. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement June 20. The margins w i th in which the CBSL announces the daily spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar were widened to ±5%. Imports and import payments November 3. The margins w i th in which the CBSL announces the da i ly spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar were widened to ±6%. December 11. The margins w i th in which the CBSL announces the da i ly spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar were widened to ±8%. February 29. License requirements were removed for wheat, meslin, maize, wheat f lou r, meslin flour, and certain items used in the preparation of animal fodder, wh i le other selected items used in the preparation of animal fodder, as well as parts and accessories for motor vehicles, and some vehicles were subject to import licensing. May 11. The national security levy was raised to 6.5% from 5.5%. July 21. Various types of fu rn i tu re and bedding were subject to import controls. Exports and export proceeds July 21. Various types of fu rn i tu re and bedding were subject to export controls. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Exchange arrangement April 4. Development banks were permitted to lend in foreign currency to exporters on their foreign credit lines. March 7. The l im i ts for foreign equity participation in banking and insurance activities were raised to 60% and 90%, respectively, from 49%. In the case of stockbroking, this l im it could be up to 100% if permission is granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Foreign investments in u n it trusts were permitted, provided the trust deed l im i ts inve s tment in government securities to 20%. March 7. The l im it on foreign ownership of commercial banks was raised to 60% from 49%. Changes During 2001 January 12. The margins w i th in which the CBSL announces the da i ly spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar were widened to ±10%. January 23. The exchange rate of the rupee was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. January 29. The period w i th in which forward sales are permitted was reduced to 180 days from 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate is determined in the foreign exchange market, and bank and nonbank authorized dealers are free to determine exchange rates and transact freely w i t h in the un if ied regulatory framework. The Bank of Sudan (BOS) is an active participant in the foreign exchange market w i th regular interventions. There have been on ly marg inal move- ments in the exchange rate vis-^-vis the dollar. The official exchange rate is calculated as the median rate of all foreign exchange transactions that took place du r ing the previous day. Based on additional information on how the system operates, Sudan's exchange arrange- ment was reclassified from the category independently floating to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free currency account or special foreign currency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. n.a. There is an agreement with Egypt that has been suspended since 1992. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. 871 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 SUDAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically All residents, except the government, pub l ic institutions, and pub l ic sector enterprises, are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th any means of payment without restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash de- posits. Withdrawals from these accounts may be used to make transfers abroad, to make transfers to other free accounts, to purchase domestic currency, to make payments in for- eign exchange to domestic institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign exchange, and for any other purpose. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organizations; foreign chari- ties and aid organizations; foreign companies, foreign contractors, and the foreign person- nel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts w i th authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency in order to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to f inance imports. Withdrawals may be made for the purpose of travel by the account holder or his or her fam i ly, and for local payments in Sudanese dinars. Except for airline companies, approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts of a ir l ine companies may be credited with payments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. These accounts may be opened by the same ind iv idua ls and organizations as those allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Balances may be converted, subject to approval on the basis of documentary evidence. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance import deposits No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 873 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a valid commercial registration certificate, a valid tax clearance certificate, and the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of imports. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required only for imports through bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports, such as wine, drugs, gambling instruments, and weapons, are prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and national security. The import duty rates range from 6% to 60% (before January 31, 2000, the max imum duty was 80%). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 60 days of the date of the bill of lading. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. n.a. Yes. Licenses are required for exports under barter trade. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Insurance for imports must normally be taken out w i th local companies. Investment-related payments Prior approval Amortization payments on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regarding the original amount of the foreign loans. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 SUDAN Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Effective January 1, 2000, reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were set at 15% and then reduced to 12% on January 1, 2001. Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2000 September 30. Based on additional information on how the system operates, Sudan's exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. January 31. The max imum duty rate was reduced to 60% from 80%. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January J. Reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were set at 15%. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were re- duced to 12% from 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: J u ne 29, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sur iname is the Su r iname gu i ld e r. Three gold coins are legal tender. Effective October 3, 2000, the exchange rate band of 3% around the official exchange rate for off ic ial bank and exchange bureau transactions was replaced w i th a band of Sf 500. In November and December 2000, th is band was reduced to Sf 200 and Sf 175, respec t ive ly, effectively un i fy ing the commercial and cambio market exchange rates. In addition to the different exchange rates arising from commercial bank and cambio mar- ket transactions, one additional exchange rate remains in effect that applies to imports of m i lk and baby m i lk. Special rates for fuel and a customs rate that was used to evaluate im- port taxes were e l im ina ted on October 3, 2000. On October 3, 2000, the off ic ial exchange rate was pegged to the dollar at Sf 2,200 per dollar, w i th an exchange rate band of Sf 500 around the o f f ic ial exchange rate for com- mercial bank and cambio transactions (this band was reduced to Sf 200 and Sf 175 in November and December 2000, respectively). As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands from the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries are not perm i t- ted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies (Australian dollars, Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, euros, Guyana dollars, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, T r in idad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars). Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements n.a. n.a. Bilateral payment arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Su r iname is a member of the CARICOM. The M in i s t ry of Trade and Indu s t ry (MTI) grants export and import licenses. However, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. The Foreign Exchange Commission (FEC) (1) grants licenses for most external payments other than imports of goods, (2) approves foreign loans, and (3) appoints authorized banks. 875 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 SURINAME In t e rna t ional security restrictions n.a. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Con tro ls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency These arrears are owed largely to Brazil. Some claims have been made at the Paris C lub for arrears to Germany, Italy, Japan, and Spain. This has not been confirmed by the authori- ties due to incomp le te data on the external debt stock. Arrears are now owed also to the Inter-American Deve lopment Bank. Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the CBS and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the CBS. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes. Dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet in- dustrial demand, the CBS may import some gold. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for num i sm a t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad w i thout special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses is- sued by the FEC. Licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may br ing in gold freely, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the CBS w i t h in 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also bring in gold freely, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free, and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tar iff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Exports in excess of the equivaent of $10,000 require a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to the equivalent of $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the country up to the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Sur iname or from exports. Balances in these accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 877 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonres iden ts, whethe r banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in do l la rs w i th domestic banks w i t h the p r ior perm iss ion of the FEC; no ove rd ra f ts are perm i t ted. These accounts may not be credited w i th Su r iname gu i lde r s. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents other than banks may open accounts in Suriname guilders freely w i th domes- tic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain specified purposes, deb i ts must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Au tho r ized banks may open nonres ident accounts in Su r iname gu i lders in the name of non re s ident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Au thor ized banks may open non res ident ac- counts on behalf of nonresidents d raw ing pensions from the government or under company plans. A special pe rm it is requ ired to transfer pensions abroad. Nonres ident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirement s for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Import licenses are requ i red for all impor ts that are sub ject to quotas. Imports o f the f o l l ow i ng commod i t ies are p roh ib i ted: pigs (exc lud ing those for b reed ing ); ch icken, duck , and tu rkey meat; pork; f ish ( ex c lud ing kw ie kw ie fish and smoked he r r ing ), sh r imp, an d crab (fresh, cooled, frozen, salted, dr ied, or precooked); vegetables (exc lud ing potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; c i trus f ru i ts; bananas and plantains; coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (ex- c lud ing baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets each weighing 5 grams or less); aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, j e l ly, and marma- lade (exc lud ing those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for non a l coho l ic beverages in packages of less than 5 k i lograms (exc lud ing those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood; railroad ties; shingles; wooden structures for cons t ruc t ion; wooden tiles and panels; wooden tools, hand les, and coat hangers; m e n 's and boys' shoes (exc lud ing rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are proh ib i ted for reasons of pub l ic policy or health. Yes. Commod i t ies sub ject to quotas inc lude kw ie kw ie fish, m i lk powder, potatoes, on ions, gar- lic, f ru i ts and nu ts (other than citrus f ru i ts, bananas, p lan ta ins, and coconuts), decaffe ina ted coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, f u r n i s h- ings, ready-made c lo th ing, and f u r n i t u re (exc lud ing that for business establishments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). Other non tar iff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of all im- ports. A statistical fee of 2% is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of imports of baux i te companies, and 0.5% of the c . i .f. v a lue of other imports. E f fec t ive J u ly 31, 2000, Su r in ame app l ied the fou r th phase of the CARICOM CET. As a resu l t, the m a x im um ex ternal t a r i ff is 20%. State import monopoly n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 SURINAME Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to m a in t a in current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). Surrender requ iremen ts State-owned bauxite and petroleum companies are subject to export surrender requirements. F inan c ing requ irements No. Documen ta t ion requ irements To ve r i fy prices, the MTI ascertains w i th the relevant government agency whe ther the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance w i th world market prices. Letters of credit Export licenses Export taxes Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. Exports require licenses issued by the MTI. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agr icu l ture, An imal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of bamboo wood is p roh ib i ted, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 100% of the f.o.b. va lue. Exports of baux i te are subject to a statistical fee of 2% of the ir f.o.b. va lue, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of the ir f.o.b. va lue. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits License applications must be supported by an aud i tor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Transfers of profits from investments made after Ju ly 31, 1953, are per- mitted. License applications must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Profits must be transferred w i th in three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the f i rm 's work ing capital and may be transferred on ly in annual ins ta l lmen ts of 20%. Transfers in accordance w i th these dec is ions have been temporar i ly suspended. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. A special perm it is required to transfer pensions abroad. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and f am i ly ma in tenance. Yes. Yes. The amount of transfers that a repatriating fam i ly may take out is de term ined on a case-by- case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Quantitative limits Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a mon th for payment of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membe rsh ip dues, copy and patent rights, etc.) as we ll as for advertising expenses and payments for books. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 879 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Transactions invo lv ing outward remittances of foreign exchange for capital account transactions are subject to FEC approval. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Controls on capital and money market instruments Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requires the prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers. Banks are required to surrender to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident dollar accounts. Investments are not permitted, but exceptions may be made when it is considered beneficial to Suriname's interests. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of up to 10 years. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Transfers of the foreign exchange ( inc lud ing loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use are permitted at any time. Also permitted are transfers of capital proceeds from the sale to residents, or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned com- panies or other forms of enterprise established by nonresidents w i th foreign capital after Ju ly 31, 1953. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad without FEC permission. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad The FEC may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer foreign exchange in a lump sum or in regular annual remittances the proceeds from the sale of assets he ld in Sur iname. The l im i ts of these transfers are determined on a case-by-case basis. Authorized banks are permitted to place part of their l iqu id funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operat- ing funds. The CBS guarantees the LCs issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 880 SURINAME at a m in imum level. This arrangement applies tp the state-controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in the ir nonresident dollar accounts. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The CBS does not allow banks to keep open positions, Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. No. Exchange arrangement October 3. The exchange rate applied to imports of fue l, the customs rate, and the rate used to evaluate import taxes were e l im ina ted. Changes During 2000 October 3. The official exchange rate was pegged to the dollar and the commercial and cambio exchange rates are not to exceed a band of Sf 500 around the official rate. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. November 1. The parallel market rate was l im i ted to fluctuate w i t h in Sf 200 of the official exchange rate. December 1. The parallel market rate was limited to fluctuate w i th in Sf 175 of the off ic ial exchange rate, effectively un i fy ing it with the commercial and cambio market exchange rates. Imports and import payments July 31. Suriname applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET. As a result, the maximum external tariff was reduced to 20% from 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Swaziland is the Swaziland l i langen i. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control The l i langeni is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. do l la r quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The for- ward exchange rates are market determined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. Swaziland is part of the CMA; no restrictions are applied to payments w i th in the CM A, and, in principle, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance w i th the terms and conditions applied in that market. The CBS, on behalf of the MOF, controls all external currency transactions. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally s im i lar to those of South Africa. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Exports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. 881 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 882 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency SWAZILAND Exports of the applicable travel entitlement are allowed. Imports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effective June 1, 2000, authorized dealers were delegated the authority to open foreign currency accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Ind iv idua ls may hold foreign currency deposits of up to E 100,000 w i th local authorized dealers. Effective June 1, 2000, th is l im it was raised to E 400,000. Ind iv idu a ls may hold foreign currency deposits abroad up to the equ iva lent of E 400,000. Companies must obtain approval and may hold only the needed work ing balances. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion from these accounts is subject to exchange control approval. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted. Effective June 1, 2000, authorized dealers were delegated the authority to open foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted securities w i th in Swaziland and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Yes. Advance payment requirements Advance payments are l im i ted to 33.33% of the ex-factory cost of the goods. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Yes. No. Until June 1, 2000, import licenses entitled the holders to buy the foreign exchange re- quired to make import payments. Effective June 1, 2000, import licenses were replaced w i th import permits applicable only to those items on the negative list. Effective June 1, 2000, a negative list of import permits was established. Swaziland is a member of the SACU, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs un ion. Imports from South Africa, inc lud ing goods originating outside the customs union, do not require licenses. Imports from coun- tries outside the customs un ion require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for con tro l l ing import licenses and payment procedures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 883 Import taxes and/or tariffs Swaziland applies the customs tar iff system of SACU on imports from ou ts ide the customs un ion. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure tha t export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and w i th in the stipulated period . Declaration must be done w i th in 30 days from the date of accrual. No. Documentat ion requirements Contract notes are requ ired. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to members of the customs area, licenses are used m a in ly for tax levy purposes. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments to nonres iden ts for current transactions, w h i le subject to control, are not no rma l ly restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to established l im i ts is delegated to authorized dealers. Trade-related payments Documentary ev idenc e con f i rm ing the amount due must be produced. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Yes. Yes. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization loans or depreciation of direct investments. Effec t ive June 1, 2000, the authority to transfer d iv idends, profits, and other income was delegated to authorized dealers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence con f i rm ing the amount due must be produced. Payments for travel Quantitative limits For business and ho l iday travel, permanent residents may purchase in foreign exchange up to E 120,000 an adu lt a year, and E 30,000 a ch i ld under 12 years a year. E f fec t ive J u ne 1, 2000, these l im i ts were increased to E 140,000 and E 45,000, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amoun ts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona f ide need. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Clearance from the CBS is required for any agreements or amendments in respect of tech- n ical consu l t ing , management, professional, and royalty fees. Study allowances for students in non-CMA countries are E 200,000 a year for single stu- dents and E 240,000 a year for married students accompanied by the ir spouse. Travel al- lowances for students s tudy ing in non-CMA countries du r ing vacation periods are E 30,000 a year for s ing le students and E 60,000 a year for married students accompanied by the ir spouse. Effec t ive June 1, 2000, allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries were increased to E 240,000 and E 280,000, respectively. Travel allowances for students s tudy ing in non-CMA countries du r ing vacation periods were increased to E 45,000 and E 90,000, respectively. Fam i ly ma in tenance is l im i ted to E 7,000 per mon th. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documen ta ry ev idence must be produced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 884 SWAZILAND Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence substantiating the income earned must be produced. Credit card use abroad Prior approval To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. Quantitative limits Res iden ts may use up to 100% of the approved travel fac i l i ty. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions All inward capital transfers, except for equity investments by nonresidents, which were l ibera l ized on June 1, 2000, require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. However, inward payments toward a loan and investments in unquoted companies requ i re CBS approval. Purchases may be processed through normal bank ing channels either directly in foreign currency or through local currency nonresident accounts with the CMA. Balances in blocked accounts for emigrants may be invested in quoted securities and in other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Other residents may freely effect these transactions as we l l. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no specific controls; however, it should be noted in the underlying documentation that a nonresident is effecting the transaction. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Effec t ive June 1, 2000, these transactions were l im i ted to private persons' investment en t i t lemen ts equ iva lent to E 400,000. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 885 On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. All transactions in derivatives and other inves tmen ts are con tro l led. Controls on credit operations All credit operations are controlled. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is not allowed. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment These transactions are allowed, provided they relate to successful tenders for the supply of goods and technical services. These transactions are allowed, provided the bank is satisfied that payment from a foreign guarantor w i ll be received in accordance with the exchange control rulings, should it be required to effect a payment under the guarantee. Effective June 1, 2000, private ind iv idua ls are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of £400,000. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the prior approval of the CBS. Private ind iv idua ls may invest in real estate w i th in the SADC region with prior CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by nonresidents are subject to approval. Applicants must go through the Land Speculation Board to determine if there is effective local demand. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the pr ior approval of the CBS. Controls on personal capital movements All personal capital movements are controlled. Private ind iv idua ls are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 400,000. Loans These transactions require p r ior CBS approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Effective June 1, 2000, the l im it on g i ft transfers was raised to E 25,000 a year. To residents from nonresidents Documentary evidence for these transactions must be produced. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of assets Controls apply to funds drawn from blocked accounts. Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings E f fec t ive June 1, 2000, transfers of casino, gambling, and lottery w inn ings by nonres iden ts may be effected through authorized dealers upon presentation of documentary evidence. Residents are not allowed to participate in lotteries organized abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad w i thout pr ior approva l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 886 SWAZILAND Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t i on al investors L im i ts (max.) on secur i t ies issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on inves tment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. L im i ts (m in .) on inve s tment por tfo l io held locally In s t i tu t ional investors are a l lowed to invest abroad 15% of the ir assets in Swaziland by way of asset swaps after obtaining CBS approval. Other contro ls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2000 Resident accounts June 1. Authorized dealers were delegated the authority to open foreign currency accounts. June 1. Ind iv idua ls may hold foreign currency deposits of up to E 400,000 (previously E 100,000) w i th local authorized dealers. Nonresident accounts June 1. Authorized dealers were delegated the authority to open foreign currency accounts. Imports and import payments June 1. A negative list requiring imported permits was established, replacing import licenses. June 1. Import licenses were replaced w i th import permits applicable only to those items on the negative list. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers June 1. The l im i ts on payments for travel were increased to E 140,000 from E 120,000 an adult a year for business and holiday travel and to E 45,000 from E 30,000 a ch i ld under 12 years a year. June 1. Authorized dealers were delegated the authority to transfer dividends, profits, and other income. June 1. Allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries were increased to E 240,000 a year for single students and E 280,000 a year for marr ied s tuden ts accom- pan ied by the ir spouses, from E 200,000 and E 240,000, respectively. Travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries were increased to E 45,000 for single students ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 887 and E 90,000 for married students accompanied by their spouses, from E 30,000 and E 60,000, respectively. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments June 1. Equity investments by nonresidents no longer require the prior approval of the CBS, but should be documented to facilitate fu ture repatriation. Controls on direct investment June 1. Private ind iv idua ls were allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 400,000. Controls on personal capital movements June 1. Transfers of casino, gambling, and lottery w inn ings by nonresidents may be effected through authorized dealers upon presentation of documentary evidence. June 1. The l im it on gift transfers was raised to E 25,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. The exchange rate of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. The Sveriges Riksbank, the central bank, and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. Financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited. Certain restrictions are imposed on Angola. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted as of December 1, 2000. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. 888 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts SWEDEN 889 Nonresident Accounts Yes. External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, inc lud ing persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and trans- fers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The accounts for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were unblocked on December 1, 2000. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries are subject to licensing for surve i l- lance purposes. Un t il December 31, 2000, imports on most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than Turkey and EFTA members or countries that are par- ties to the EEA, were subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Effective Janu- ary 1, 2001, these surveillance measures apply only to the Czech Republic, Kazakhstan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine. Certain goods from China, such as bicycles, brushes, fireworks, gloves, and toys, are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes, as are shoes from Vietnam. The importation of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries is subject to quotas. Agricultural and fishery products are also subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel products from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine are also subject to quotas, as are imports of porcelain and shoes from China. Imports from Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. Import restrictions apply to certain categories of food, as well as narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive materials, and other items. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq and Angola are prohibited due to UN sanctions, w i th a few exceptions. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 890 SWEDEN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Controls apply only to shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment in fishing and c iv il aviation. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. No. No. Laws on inward investment and establishment apply to investment in fishing, c iv il aviation, and transport and communications. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position l im i ts No. Yes. For prudential reasons, general guidelines exist for credit ins t i tu t ions' and securities f i rm s' net positions in foreign currencies. These guidelines stipulate l im i ts both on positions in a single currency —15% of the capital base—and on the total net position of all currencies— 30% of the capital base. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The same provisions apply as for open foreign exchange position l im i ts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 891 Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 1. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were l i f ted. Nonresident accounts December 1. Nonres ident accounts for the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia were unb locked. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January J. Only the Czech Repub l ic, Kazakhstan, the fo rmer Yugoslav Repub l ic of Mace- donia, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Ukra ine are subject to su rve i l- lance measures for iron and steel products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VII I Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss Nationa l Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. No. No. No off ic ia l ly fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control International security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Restrictions have been imposed against Iraq. Most restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted on October 11 and November 28, 2000. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions have been imposed on payments and transfers for current international transac- tions regarding Iraq. Most restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted on October 11 and November 28, 2000. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 892 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 893 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Licenses are required mostly for agr icu l tural products. Import controls apply only for defense-sensitive products, and in accordance w i th UN restrictions. In general, customs duties are levied based on the weight of goods instead of their value. On industrial goods, import tariffs are in general very low. On agricultural goods that are also produced in Switzerland, they are higher. In the frame of the GATT-Uruguay Round, all quantitative restrictions and measures having equivalent effect concerning agricultural products were transformed into tariffs. In order to maintain market access opportunities prevailing in 1986-88, 28 tariff rate quotas were created for specific agricultural goods (fruits, vegetables, meats, wines, etc.). State monopolies apply to imports of alcohol 80 proof and above, salt, and wheat f lour w i th in the tariff rate quota. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas A system of general and ind iv idual licenses applies to controlled exports. Exports of weapons, dual-use goods for the production of conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction are controlled (approval is required). Exports are prohibited in accordance with UN restrictions. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 894 SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are un re- stricted. In case of ma jor d is turbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a permit requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents requ i re approval by the canton in wh ich the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to superv is ion and appeal by the federal governmen t. No. No. For l i fe and non l i fe insurance companies, the overall l im it is 30% with l im i ts for equities, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5% of the total portfolio, respectively. Effec t ive Ap r il 1, 2000, these prov is ions were l i f ted for pension funds that have adopted p rudent portfolio management practices. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts October 11. Res t r ic t ions against the Federal R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia were l i f t e d. November 28. Most restrictions against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 895 Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors April L Portfolio provisions were lifted for pension funds that have adopted prudent portfolio management practices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The official exchange rates are: (1) the legally designated official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1 that applies to the repayment of loans and interest arising from bilateral payments agreements; (2) the budget accounting rate of LS 46.45/46.50 per $1 (also known as the government fee rate) that applies to pub l ic sector exports of petroleum, all government imports (including essential subsidized commodities and invisibles), and repayment of loans and interest not related to bilateral payments agreements; and (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 46.00/46.50 per $1 that applies to the following transactions: (i) all public and private capital inflows, the 25% of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75% of export proceeds retained by private sector ex- porters that is not used to finance their own imports or sold to other importers; (ii) travel allowances; (iii) tourism and medical expenses; (iv) student allowances; (v) remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Ex- change; (vi) all public sector enterprises' foreign exchange transactions; (vii) earnings of staff of UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; and (viii) domestic ex- penses of foreign oil companies. Effective January 20, 2001, the Commercial Bank of Syria (ComBS) introduced a free market exchange rate of LS 50.15/50.25 per $1 that is applied to certain foreign currency transactions. The unoff ic ia l rates are (1) the free market rate and (2) the "export proceeds" rate, in which a market-determined rate applies to goods that may be imported only with foreign exchange earned through exports. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to import goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in this market. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The official rates are pegged to the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The Exchange Office (EO) prescribes the currencies that may be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Pre- scription of currency requirements is not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. With few exceptions, non-Syrians visiting the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents n.a. n.a. 896 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 897 Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Adm in is tra t ion of control There is an agreement with Russia and Sri Lanka. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade (MOEFT) determines policy w i th regard to imports and exports and issues import licenses. The EO issues exchange licenses for inv is ib les and capital transactions. International security restrictions n.a. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Imports of gold are subject to import licensing, wh i le export proceeds must be surrendered to the ComBS. Residents traveling abroad may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip unless they are travel- ing to Jordan or Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a for- eign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 into foreign exchange, provided that the banknotes are less than the amounts ini- tially exchanged through the ComBS during a period not exceeding two months before the date of departure. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $3,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Deposits may be transferred to other resident accounts on condition that their accounts have sources from abroad. Deposits in the form of banknotes may only be withdrawn in that form, unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, and other similar noncommercial purposes. Deposits for a term of 90 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Approval is granted if the resident has activities abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts After obtaining approval, nonresidents may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the ComBS for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies through payment conventions. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Domestic currency accounts After obtaining approval, these accounts may be credited with the proceeds in foreign cur- rencies sold to the authorized banks and w i th other receipts in foreign currencies; they may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts No. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments The foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon sub- mission of documentation of their import requirements. When foreign exchange is not made available, private imports must be financed w i th the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the ComBS at the "rate in neighboring countries." Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. A number of imports may only be imported using foreign exchange generated through exports. A non interest-bearing advance deposit is required for pub l ic sector imports for an amount equal to 100% of the value of the imports. Private sector imports are not subject to this requirement if they are financed from abroad. If the ComBS requires an LC, an import deposit is required in the amount of 100% of the value of the import plus a 3% fee. Private importers may choose to import products specified on the permitted list by opening LCs at the ComBS. All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 1,000 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing. A fee ranging from LS 104 to LS 454 is charged upon the issuance of an import license. The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import includes certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. Imports must come directly from the country of origin, but the MOEFT has the authority to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. There is a general list of goods that may not be imported from non-Arab countries. A sepa- rate list of prohibited imports from member countries of the Arab Free Trade Area inc ludes only goods prohibited for health, safety, religious, or environmental reasons. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods imported directly from the country of origin. Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. An import surcharge of 2% is charged on all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at d i f- ferent exchange rates (LS 11.25, LS 23, LS 43, and LS 46.50 per $1), according to the categories of goods, wh i le import tariffs range up to 200%. All previous special levies on imports have been replaced by a un i f ied import surcharge ranging from 6% to 35%. Many basic commodities (such as paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own ac- count, by certain private sector importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 899 Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Exporters are required to repatriate and surrender export proceeds w i th in six months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and w i th in n ine months from the date of ship- ment to any other coun t ry. These periods may be extended to n ine mon ths for exports to Arab countries and 12 mon ths for exports to other countries, after the approval of the EO, wh ich is granted upon presentation of a proof of need. Private sector exporters of manu fac- tured goods are required to surrender 25% of their export proceeds to the ComBS at the "rate in the neighboring countries," and to retain the remainder to finance permitted im- ports. Pub l ic sector enterprises may retain 100% of their export proceeds in special fore ign currency accounts. In the case of f r u i ts and vegetables, private sector exporters may re ta in 100% of the proceeds. F inanc ing requirements The ComBS may accept p repaymen ts for exports of Syrian products. Documentation requirements Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and the ir de r iva t ives are made by the gov- ernment organizations dealing in cereals and cotton. Petroleum product exports are hand- led by the state Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Yes. Products of agricultural origin are subject to the agricultural production tax of 12.5% ad valorem. The processed products that qua l ify for tax reimbursement inc lude dried, fro- zen, and processed f ru i ts and vegetables; cotton, cotton seeds, ginned cotton, cotton ya rn, cotton wool, cotton c lo th ing, and cotton seed oil; o l ive o i l; and textiles. On Feb rua ry 1, 2000, additional agr icu l tural products became exempted from the agr icu l tural p roduc t ion tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most payments for inv i s ib les must be made at the "rate in the ne ighbo r ing countries." Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Yes. Rem i t tances of prof it and d iv id ends must be authorized by the EO upon proof of payment of income tax. Profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the investment law may be repatriated freely. Informa t ion is not available on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $3,000 and LS 2,000 a tr ip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Leba- non who are not e l ig ib le for a foreign exchange allowance may take w i th them up to LS 5,000 a t r ip in Syrian banknotes. On departure, residents of Syrian na t iona l i ty mu st pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if trave l ing to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to th is tax. Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 900 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health and for studies abroad by the Ministry of Higher Education. The l im it for fam i ly maintenance and alimony is LS 250 for each transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof of need. Yes. Up to 60% of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic and 50% of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected with foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Credit card use abroad Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from a few transactions by the pub l ic sector and those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the "rate of neighboring countries." All Syrian employees work ing abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxu ry items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equ iva lent funds are surrendered at the budget accounting rate. Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and convert a m i n im um of 25% of each year's earnings received in foreign exchange at the "rate of neighboring countries." Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities All capital transfers to and from the Syrian Arab Republic take place at the "rate in ne ighbor ing countries." Exports of capital require the approval of the EO. There is no market in med ium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to supp lement the ir capital base. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts The only ins trumen ts available in the Syrian Arab Republic are investment bonds issued by the Popular Credit Bank (PCB) as agent of the government. The bonds, which carry an interest rate of 9% a year, have 10-year maturity but have a short-term effective ho ld ing period as they are redeemable after three to six months. They may only be purchased by nonbank Syrian residents and by the PCB itself. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities These instruments do not exist in the Syrian Arab Republic. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n . r. n .r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 901 Yes. n . r. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Syrian Arab Repub l ic provides special fac i l i t ies for the investment of funds of imm i- grants and of na t iona ls of Arab states, in c lud ing a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and ag r icu l tu ral indus tr ies. Projects w i th m i n im um fixed assets of LS 10 m i l l i on approved by the government benef it from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, in c lud ing exemption from customs duties of imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed companies w i th at least 25% pub l ic participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years and private companies are ex- empted for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to ho ld foreign currency accounts to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75% of foreign currency exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Repub l ic has investment guarantee agreements w i th France, Germany, Switzerland, and the Un i ted States. Effective May 13, 2000, companies licensed under the investment law are allowed to exchange in to local currency at the "rate in ne ighbo r ing countries" part of the ir assets, d u ly deposited at Syrian banks, to cover basic needs and local l i ab i l i t i e s. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after f ive years from the date of inves tmen t. Capital may be repatriated after six mon ths if the pro ject suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Nonres iden ts and foreign nationals may acqu ire real estate on ly after presen t ing evidence that they have conve'rted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equ iva lent of the price of property at the authorized local bank. Proceeds are required to be held in a blocked account and repatriated gradually, n.a. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions On January 20, 2001, a new b ank ing law came in to effect that allowed for the establish- ment of pr iva te banks and introduced bank ing secrecy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 902 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Yes. Yes. Effective June 30, 2000, foreign banks were allowed to operate in free economic zones. Branches of foreign banks in free zones must have a m i n im um capitalization of the equ iva- lent of $10 m i l l ion in foreign exchange and their services may only be available to compa- nies set up in the free zone. In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Changes During 2000 February 1. A number of agricultural products were exempted from the agricultural production tax. May 13. Companies licensed under the inves tment law were allowed to exchange in to local currency at the "rate in neighboring countries" part of their assets, du ly deposited at Syrian banks, to cover basic needs and local l iab i l i t ies. June 30. Foreign banks were allowed to operate in free economic zones. Changes During 2001 January 20. The ComBS introduced a free market exchange rate applicable to certain foreign currency transactions. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 20. A new banking law came into effect that allowed for the establishment of private banks and introduced bank ing secrecy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Effective October 26, 2000, the currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik somoni, wh ich replaced the Tajik ruble. The conversion was effected at the rate of Sm 1 per TR 1,000. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating On July 1, 2000, the participation of the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) on the Tajiki- stan Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) was eliminated, and the NBT began quoting a daily official exchange rate for the ruble (and later for the somoni) based on a weighted average of the exchange rates in the interbank market. As a result, the exchange rate of Tajikistan has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in somoni (previously Tajik rubles). Residents and nonresidents may not use foreign exchange for domestic transactions, except for special cases as defined by the authorities. Commercial transactions with nonresidents must be conducted via corre- spondent accounts maintained either by authorized commercial banks or by the NBT. n.a. Yes. Yes. There are inoperative agreements with the CIS countries, and negotiations for settlement of balances have been concluded. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade is allowed only for a lum inum. Administration of control The NBT (1) acts as nonexclusive agent for the Republic of Tajikistan in the adm in is tra t ion of foreign exchange controls; (2) issues licenses to commercial banks to conduct banking operations and foreign currency operations; (3) is exclusively responsible for the supervi- sion and regulation of financial institutions; (4) manages official foreign exchange reserves; and (5) formulates basic foreign exchange policy. The MOF registers foreign investors for inward direct investment. International security restrictions No. 903 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 904 Payment arrears Official Pr iva te TAJIKISTAN External arrears to the Un i ted States were settled on January 21, 2000. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Trade in gold is regulated by the Committee on Precious Metals. Controls on external trade Joint ventures that extract gold are subject to controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Exports of domestic currency are allowed freely w i thout customs regulations. Effective March 30, 2000, foreign exchange may be exported freely up to $2,000 or its equ iva len t. For any amount above th is l im i t, documen ts prov ing the legality of the exports must be subm i t ted. Imports are permitted, provided customs rules are observed. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted under the Law on Foreign Currency Control. However, the opening of these accounts requires authorization from the NBT. Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Import licensing applies to tobacco and tobacco products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 905 Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear materials is prohibited. Licenses w i th quotas apply to imports of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products. As Tajikistan is a member of a customs union, customs duties are the same as in the other member countries of the union. A lum ina is exempt from duty. Customs duties are collected on alcohol and cigarette imports in fixed amounts, depending on the quantity of goods imported (liters and units). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds may be either held by exporters in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks or sold in the interbank market. F inanc ing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements For exports of cotton, a lum inum, and tobacco, a 100% advance payment is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Licenses are required for the preparation, processing, and export of tobacco and tobacco products. Licenses with quotas apply to exports and purchases of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products. Effective January 1, 2000, a 20% sales tax on cotton exports and a 2% sales tax on a lum i- num exports were in effect. Effective January 1, 2001, these tax rates were changed to 17% and 1%, respectively. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 906 TAJIKISTAN Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required for the purchase of 10% of shares. NBT notification is required for the purchase of over 5% of shares of banks, while NBT approval is required for the purchase of over 20%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Only juridical persons may issue these instruments; registration with the MOF and approval of the NBT are required. Bonds or other debt securities Registration with the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales by nonresidents are permitted. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required, Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents If the security is issued in foreign currency, NBT approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are no controls for loans of up to a 120-day maturity. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls for loans of up to a 180-day maturity. Financial credits There are no controls for loans of up to a 180-day maturity. For maturities over 180 days, NBT approval is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. There are no controls for such facilities of up to a 180-day maturity. For those with maturi- ties over 180 days, NBT approval is required. If a bank gives a guarantee, it is required to reserve with the NBT an amount equivalent to the amount of the extended guarantee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 907 To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBT approval is required. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad On ly authorized foreign exchange banks may borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks n .r. Yes. Yes. There are no such securities in Tajikistan. The reserve requirement is 20%. The l im it is 20% of capital. Yes. In banks by nonresidents The quota for participation of foreign capital in the bank ing sector is up to 35%. Open foreign exchange position limits The aggregate open long and short positions are limited to 30% and 10% of the bank's capital, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2000 July I. The TICEX was eliminated and the NBT began quoting a daily official exchange rate for the rub le (and later for the somoni) based on a weighted average of the exchange rates in the interbank market. As a result, the exchange rate of Tajikistan was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating w i th no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate. October 26. The Ta j ik rub le was replaced by the Ta j ik somoni at the rate of Sm 1 per TR 1,000. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 21. External arrears were paid to the United States. March 30. Exports of foreign exchange up to a l im it of $2,000 in va lue were allowed freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 908 TAJIKISTAN Exports and export proceeds January 20. A 20% sales tax on cotton exports and a 2% sales tax on a lum inum came into effect. Exports and export proceeds January J. The tax rates for cotton fiber and a lum inum exports were changed to 17% (from 20%) and 1% (from 3%), respectively. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 15, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania shilling. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the sh i l l ing is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tan- zania (BOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by transitory factors. No. No. Authorized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Payment in domestic currency to a nonresident requires BOT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is an agreement w i th Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the SADC and the EAC. There are agreements w i th Kenya and Uganda. The Foreign Exchange Act vests power in the BOT to administer and manage exchange transactions both on the mainland and in Zanzibar. The BOT delegates authority to all licensed banks to make payments abroad. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. 909 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 Pr iva te TANZANIA n .r. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Only authorized persons may buy, borrow, sell, lend, and hold or otherwise deal in gold coins and gold bu l l ion outside Tanzania. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically He ld abroad Nonresidents are allowed to export domestic currency for num i sma t ic purposes. Fo l low ing a currency conve r t ib i l i ty agreement reached w i th Uganda and Kenya, res iden ts may carry any amount of currency between the three countries. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Ho ld ing of foreign accounts is allowed for money acqu i red ou ts ide Tanzania; o therw ise, operations of offshore foreign currency accounts by i n d i v i d u al residents are s t i ll subject to restrictions. However, in the case of resident banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, there are no restrictions on the operation of accounts w i th overseas f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions (foreign correspondent banks). Any authorized dealer bank may operate foreign currency accounts abroad in its name on behalf of its customers. Approval required Accounts of residents have to be reported to the BOT. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency These accounts are exceptionally reserved for UN-related organizations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Nonresident accounts are ma in ta ined by foreign nationals temporar i ly residing in Tanzania; such accounts are to be closed upon leav ing the country. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts An au thor ized bank 's approval is requ ired when mak ing any payment or p lac ing any sum to the credit of nonresidents. The bank may direct the sum payable or to be paid or credited to a non-interest bearing blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Authorized dealers are permitted to handle cases of advance payments. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The release of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 requires invoices, sh ipp ing documen ts, a s ing le b i ll of entry fo rm, and a clean report of f ind ing s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 911 Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection A clean report of findings is necessary for import payments subject to preshipment inspec- tion. Imports of goods exceeding $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Yes. To protect certain industries from un fa ir competition, permits are required to import tires and sugar. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, at four rates, of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. Low tariffs are also charged on imports of machinery. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as well as to religious, educational, and welfare institutions. Zero rates are applicable to strategic and lead investment sectors. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Requirements are in place for the repatriation of export proceeds in foreign currency by exporters and for reporting by banking institutions to the BOX of de l inquent exporters beyond time allowed. No. n.r. Yes. n.r. Yes. n.r. As an exception to the general rule, licenses from the respective ministries are required for the exportation from the mainland for a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Presentation of relevant documentary evidence at the time of buy ing the foreign exchange is required. The BOT examines these documents. The release of foreign exchange for import payments requires invoices, shipping docu- ments, a clean report of findings from an authorized inspection f irm, and a single b i ll of entry form. For trade-related payments exceeding $5,000, proper documentation, such as invoices, shipping documents, and a clean report of findings, is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 912 TANZANIA Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Remittances of portfolio and dividends require audited reports and authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes. For travel allowances exceeding $10,000, the traveler has to produce documents certifying that the t r ip w i ll last more than 40 days. Personal payments Proper documentation from the relevant educational or medical institution is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona fide tests for payment of medical costs. Foreign workers' wages Foreign workers are obliged to document the transfer with contracts and permits and state the reason for remittance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Applicants for payment of fees related to consultancy, management, and royalty agree- ments need to furnish, contractual documents du ly executed by parties thereto, relevant invoice/fees notes, and tax clearances from the Tanzania Revenue Authority certifying that tax obligations have been settled. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona fide tests for certain bther payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions All transfers of foreign currency funds from residents to nonresidents require specific approval from the BOT. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Residents may acquire from abroad and sell or issue abroad any security or coupon on which capital, dividends, or interest are payable in foreign currency, provided that the security has been funded exclusively by externally acquired funds. The acquisition must be no t if ied to the BOT for statistical purposes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Participation of nonresidents in the domestic money and capital markets is restricted. Purchase abroad by residents Shares issued abroad may be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired with externally generated funds. These purchases have to be reported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase and redemption must be done in local currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 913 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No BOT approval is required w i th respect to applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external f inanc ing facilities, and deferred payment arrangements exceeding 365 days. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits BOT approval is required with respect to the receipt of foreign currency by residents and/or receipt of payment in the currency of Tanzania from nonresidents. Any person resident in Tanzania who has a right to receive foreign currency from a nonresident has to comply with directives given by the BOT to ensure the receipt of such foreign currency or such payment. By residents to nonresidents Realization of export proceeds beyond 180 days requires approval by a commercial bank. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities There are no controls on assurances obtained outside Tanzania, except that the transfer should be externally funded. By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment There are controls in place for the provision of sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to nonresident entities, or transfer of funds to service these facilities. Outward direct investment Inves tmen ts requ ire BOT approval. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions All foreign direct inves tment must be approved by the Investment Promotion Center; some areas are reserved for investment by the pub l ic sector, and certain other areas are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Commercial banks are permitted to authorize access to foreign currency fac i l i t ies for residents w i th respect to outward capital account paymen ts under direct inves tment as repatriation of capital and income to foreign shareholders. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be repatriated, plus authenticated documents from the Tanzania Revenue Authority conf irm ing payment of all relevant taxes. Any person who owns immovable property in Tanzania may assign or transfer such property to beneficiaries abroad provided that the property was acquired through exter- nal resources subject to any laws in force in Tanzania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 914 TANZANIA Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require BOT approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Debt servicing-related remittances by residents require the submission of the re levant con- tract as approved by a commercial bank together with creditors' demand notes to that ef- fect. Commercial banks have to fu rn i sh the BOT w i th mon th ly reports on loans serviced. To residents from nonresidents BOT approval is requ i red for ma tur i t ies longer than one year. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Documentary requirements are in effect. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to external debt management regulations. Otherwise, banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to operate credit lines w i th correspondents. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The BOT requires that all statutory reserves be held in local currency and allows banks' averaging of daily positions and the counting of half their vault cash toward meeting the requ iremen t. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.r. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. No. n.r. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Thailand is the Thai baht. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the baht is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. The baht-dollar reference exchange rate is announced da i ly, based on the average exchange rate of the previous day. The authorities have indicated that exchange market intervention is limited to smoothing operations. No. No. F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may engage in spot foreign exchange market transactions w i th non- residents in local currency. Forward transactions need to be related to the und e r ly ing trade and financial transactions. In the case of no unde r ly ing trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities, including swap and forward exchange contracts ob- tained by a nonresident from all domestic f inanc ial institutions combined, are subject to a max imum outstanding l im it of B 50 m i l l ion. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Baht credit fac i l i t ies provided by resident banks to nonresidents by way of der iva t ives must be used for domestic trade or investment activities. For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign exchange for domestic payments. Tha i land is a member of the ASEAN. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) administers exchange controls on behalf of the MOF, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and domestically negotiate gold jewe lry, gold coins, and unwo rked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. 915 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 THAILAND Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad and, upon depositing, the depositors must submit the documents showing their obligations to pay in foreign currency to persons residing abroad, resident authorized banks, the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, or the Indus t r ial Finance Corporation of Thailand w i th in three months of the date of deposit, and they may deposit amounts not exceeding the ir obligations. The total outstanding balances in all accounts should not exceed the equivalents of $5 m i l l ion for a jur id ical person and $500,000 for a na tu ral person. Held abroad Approval is required if deposits are made w i th funds of domestic origin, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval i s required for nonresidents to sell foreign currencies for baht for same day de l ivery (va lue same day) and for next day de l ivery (value next day). Approval required Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonres iden ts' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose v a lue exceeds B 500,000 when subm i t t ing import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as m i l i ta ry equ ipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most commodities may be freely imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Negative lis t Other nontariff measures Imports of some goods are prohibited for security or social reasons. M i lk producers are required to purchase locally produced m i lk in some quantity when they import skimmed m i lk into Thailand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 917 Import taxes and/or tariffs Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on certain commodities. Effective January 1, 2000, tariff rates were reduced to between zero and 5% for two-thirds of the tariff lines for goods imported from AFTA countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be repatriated immediately after payment is received and w i t h in 120 days from the date of export. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in seven days of receipt. Foreign exchange earners are allowed to deposit their foreign exchange in their foreign currency accounts only if they have obligations to pay out such amounts to nonresi- dents abroad w i th in three months of the deposit date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a foreign exchange transaction fo rm for transactions exceeding B 500,000 when subm i t t ing the export entry form at customs. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and tex t i le products are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to pr ior approval, irrespective of destination. All other products may be exported f ree ly. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to h igher ad valorem or specific duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions of more than $5,000 or the equivalent. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand w i th in seven days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and international organizations are exempted from this requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The sale or issue of securities is under the jurisdiction of the Securities Exchange Commis- sion (SEC). Under the securities law, different rules and regulations apply to capital market securities (those with a maturity of more than one year) and short-term money market secu- rities (those debt securities with a maturity of not more than one year). The regulations imposed on capital market securities are generally stricter than those imposed on short-term money market securities. Companies w i s h i ng to issue securities to the p u b l ic need approval from the BOT and the SEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 918 THAILAND On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign equ i ty participation is l im i ted to 25% of the total amount of shares sold in locally incorporated banks, f inance companies, credit f inance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an ind iv idu al and related f am i ly members may not exceed 5% of a bank 's total amount of shares sold and 10% of that of f inance compa- nies and credit fonc ier companies. Foreign equ i ty par t ic ipa t ion is l im i ted to 49% for o ther Thai corporations. Foreign investors are allowed to hold more than 49% of the total shares sold in local f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions for up to 10 years, after wh ich the amount of shares w i ll be grandfathered, and the nonresidents w i ll not be allowed to purchase new shares u n t il the ratio of shares held by them is brought down to 49%. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents App roval is requ ired according to the same ru les as in the case of domestic issuance. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions requ i re the approval of the MOF, BOT, and SEC. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases requ i re the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The potential issuer must subm it an application for approval to the SEC, and permission w i ll be granted if the issuer can prove that the security w i ll be pooled exc lus ive ly on pr i- mary or secondary markets abroad. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ i re the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. However, f inance companies are allowed to issue negotiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) and b i l ls of exchange in fore ign currency w i th more than a one-year ma tur i ty for sale to the pub l ic abroad or for sale to in s t i tu t ions that are authorized to operate in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds associated w i th these issues or the transfer of funds requ ired to service these ins t rumen ts may be made freely. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase of secur i t ies offered by local fund management companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions r equ i re the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on der ivat ives and other in s trumen ts Purchase locally by non res iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The launch ing of funds requires approval from the SEC, both locally and abroad, and only local fund management companies are allowed to issue th is ins t rumen t. In add i t ion, funds managed by local f i rms w i ll be deemed to have Thai na t iona l i ty regardless of the national- ity of the majority of the u n it holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these ins t rumen ts may be made free ly. In the case that there are no u n d e r l y i ng trade and inve s tment ac t iv i t ies in Tha i land, Thai baht cred it fac i l i t ies, in c lud ing swap and forward exchange contracts obtained by a non- res ident from all domestic f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions combined, are sub ject to a m a x im um ou ts tand ing l im it of B 50 m i l l i o n. The nonres iden t's head office, branches, represen ta t ive offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one en t i ty. The issuance of warrants or equity-related ins t rumen ts and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria are based on the soundness of the unde r ly ing stock. There is no d iscr im ina tory practice against nonres iden ts for par t ic ipa t ing in the f inanc ial marke t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents THAILAND 919 The purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require approval by the BOT. The sale of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. In the case that there are no under ly ing trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domestic f inanc ial institution s combined are subject to a m ax imum outstanding l im it of B 50 m i l l i o n. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or w i thout unde r ly ing transactions or collateral is prohibited. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred payments, bilateral netting, or open accounts. Most paymen ts are settled w i th in 120 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits, subject to the rule of net foreign exchange position. W i thout approval from the BOT, residents may on ly grant loans of up to $10 m i l l i on (or the equivalent) a year to the ir affiliated companies, provided that they own at least 25% of total shares in the company. To residents from nonresidents There is no control on these credits. Repayment of financial credits to nonresidents may be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay nonresidents in foreign currency. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Resident banks are not allowed to certify or guarantee transactions for nonresidents that make resident banks liable to pay baht to other entities on behalf of nonresidents. Outward direct investment Investments exceeding $10 m i l l ion a year require approval from the BOT. Inward direct investment Foreign capital may be brought into the country without restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Tha i land w i t h in seven days of receipt. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment All proceeds may be repatriated w i thout res tr ic t ion upon subm iss ion of supporting evidence. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Approval of the BOT is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of property is not allowed w i th funds that originate from abroad. The foreign ownership l im it for condominiums is 40% of the total value. Ownership of property by foreign entities with majority shareholding in Thai financial institutions is, at present, gov- erned by the Commercial Banking Act or the Act on the Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or without unde r ly ing transactions or collateral is prohibited. Thai residents are allowed to send up to the equ iva lent of $100,000 to relatives abroad who hold permanen t resident permits w i thout approval from the BOT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 920 THAILAND Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Thai emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad up to $1 m i l l ion a year w i thout approval from the BOT. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gamb l ing is illegal in Thailand. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions In the case that there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined are subject to a max imum outstanding l im it of B 50 m i l l ion. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and aff i l ia ted companies are counted as one entity. Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents w i th or w i thout under- lying transactions or collateral is prohibited. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Government f inanc ial institutions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not allowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency without restriction. Lending locally in foreign exchange Commercial lending denominated in foreign currencies to particular industries may be partially (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fu l ly repaid as exchange rate risk is heightened. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Commercial banks are required to ma in ta in at least 6% of their nonresident foreign exchange deposits in the form of (1) nonremunerated balance at the BOT (at least 2%); (2) vault cash (at most 2.5%); and (3) eligible securities (the rest). Finance companies and finance and securities companies are not allowed to accept foreign exchange deposits. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company ( inc lud ing pub- lic companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of their capital fund. Banks may seek approval to hold shares above the 10% l im it in the following cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that operate as finan- cial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are benefi- cial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Foreign investors may invest in Thai commercial banks up to 25% of the total amount of shares sold. Foreign investors may be allowed, on a case-by-case basis, to hold up to 100% of shares sold in commercial banks, finance companies, and credit foncier companies for a period of 10 years, which w i ll be grandfathered. However, after the 10-year period, they w i ll not be allowed to purchase additional shares unless their holding is less than 49% of the total amount of shares sold. Open foreign exchange position limits The rule on net foreign exchange exposure l im i ts allows commercial banks to ma in ta in positions in terms of their first-tier capital of no more than 15% oversold or overbought. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Approval of the BOT is required. Mutual funds and provident funds have to invest their total portfolio in the domestic mar- ket. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the fund may be invested in equity and debenture issued by juridical persons incorporated under the ASEAN Agreement or the United Nation's Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific Agreement to specifically operate reinsurance business; and (2) the funds may be invested in equity issued by nonresident juridical persons other than specified in (1) with approval from the authorities, and by using the surplus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Limits (min .) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws THAILAND 921 Portfolio investment of l ife and non l i fe insurance companies is governed by the acts and notifications of the MOC. The criteria are as follows: (1) total investment in debenture and equity should not exceed 30% of the company's assets; (2) investment in unit trusts should not exceed 20% of total assets; (3) rediscount of state enterprise bonds should not exceed 20% of total assets; and (4) investment in securities abroad must not exceed 5% of total assets and should have approval from the appropriate authority. The criteria for investment of provident funds are as follows: (1) investment of at least 60% in government bonds, state enterprise bonds, deposits at commercial banks, and debt instruments issued by commercial banks; and (2) investment of not more than 40% in promissory notes of finance companies, stocks, and other debt instruments. In addition, the ce i l ing on investment in stocks is 25% of the portfolio, and that on any single stock is 5% of the portfolio. Under the Securities Act, there are no controls on nonresidents hav ing equity participation in Thai security companies. However, a 50% l im it on a nonresident's equity participation in any company is imposed. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai secu- rities market in the form of representative offices whose roles are limited to prov id ing re- search material for the ir parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter in to jo int partnership with Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. Imports and import payments January 1. Tariff rates were reduced to between zero and 5% for two-thirds of the tariff l ines for goods imported from AFTA countries. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 p e r € l, wh ich is the off ic ial buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris for- eign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Exchange subs idy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Togo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are ma in ly made in euros, but they may also be made in other foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are free. n.a. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing arrangement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the pr ior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO relate to outward direct investment, domestic foreign exchange accounts, and accounts of residents abroad. W i th in the framework of the regional financial market, the issue, soliciting, and sale of foreign or domestic securities in Togo is subject to the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. 922 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency TOGO 923 Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MOF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO rema ins suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized in te rmed ia r ies and the ir correspondents located outside the WAEMU is s t r ic t ly p roh ib i ted. The reexportation of fo re ign banknotes by non res ident travelers is a l lowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of fo re ign banknotes above these ce i l ings requ ires documen ta t ion demons t ra t ing e i ther the impor ta t ion of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling to non -WAEMU countries are allowed to take out fore ign currency up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l i on a person. Larger amoun ts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of paymen t. Resident and non res ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of fo re ign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun t r ies ou ts ide the Operations Account area. Non res iden ts b r ing- ing in foreign bankno tes and fore ign currency t rave le r 's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 1 m i l l i on must declare them to customs when entering Togo. Residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an au thor ized in termed iary bank w i t h in eight days of the ir re tu rn. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res iden ts are a l lowed to open fore ign exchange accounts w i th local banks or w i th banks abroad after ob ta in ing authorization from the MOF subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonres iden ts are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO au thor iza t ion is requ ired. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout prior MOF authorization. Transfers of f u n ds be tween non re s ident accounts are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 924 TOGO Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may debit freely their accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Preshipment inspection Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A dom ic i l ia t ion requ i rement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. All imports arr iv ing by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l i on and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion are subject to prior inspection. Letters of credit LCs may be opened for all import operations, regardless of origin. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Open general licenses Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from any source. Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of Pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs On January 1, 2000, the WAEMU introduced a CET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). In addition, a 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. va lue of the imports, were introduced. On the same date, the statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ irements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries do not need to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in 30 days of the payment. The au- thorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions are subject to a customs declaration. Letters of cred it Dom ic i l ia t ion Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l i o n, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas Diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 925 Export taxes Other export taxes Phosphate rock is subject to a specific export tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Payments abroad for invisible transactions may be made freely, subject to the presentation of documentary evidence. Current transfers abroad of funds required to service loans are unrestricted. These must, however, be carried out through an authorized bank and are to be reported for statistical purposes to the MOF. Payments for depreciation of direct investments require prior au- thorization from the MOF, since this type of depreciation is not specifically men t ioned in the regulations. The transfer of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan is free, but must be made through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The MOF verifies transactions that require its authorization. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Allocations for payments exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion may be taken out in traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There is no control on the payment of pensions. There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, fam i ly maintenance, or alimony. However, such payments must be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized agents. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions w i th WAEMU members may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect to services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Capital transfers abroad require prior authorization from the MOF. Such authorization is not required in the case of capital transfers for investments of residents abroad involving securities that were previously issued or sold with the approval of the RCPSFM. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. Capital inflows to WAEMU countries are unre- stricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declaration, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 TOGO Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents In imp lemen ta t ion of the provisions ind ica ted in th is documen t, the term "foreigner" refers to all non-WAEMU countries in respect of l im i t ing the open positions of banks and f inan- cial institutions and in respect of the fo l low ing operations: repatriation of export proceeds; issue and sale of foreign securities; exports and imports of gold; foreign direct investments; credit operations w i th nonresidents; exports through the post by means of payment; and securities. For statistical purposes related to the compilation of the balance of payments of an ind iv id- ual WAEMU member, all other countries are considered as fore ign. W i th the exception of the issue and sale in the country of foreign securities, operations in securities are not covered exp l ic i t ly by specific laws. However, by the ir na ture, these opera- tions are still subject to the provisions governing foreign inves tment and lend ing. There are no con tro ls on transfers related to the proceeds of d i s inve s tmen ts by non re s i- dents. However, the reinvestment of proceeds of l iqu ida t ion of a foreign inves tment by a resident requires prior MOF authorization. Foreign investments in WAEMU coun tr ies are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The pr ior au thor iza t ion of the RCPSFM is re- quired for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for pub l ic i ty and advertising of inves tmen ts abroad. Any inv e s tm ent by res iden ts abroad requires the prior approval of the MOF. The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Togo by nonresi- dents are subject to pr ior RCPSFM au tho r iza t ion. A f ter presen t ing the proper documen ts, residents may purchase freely in Togo any securities whose domestic issue and purchase has been previously authorized. There are no controls on the sale of securities resu l t ing from the d ives t i ture of inves tment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations governing the f inanc ial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requ ires an exchange au tho r iza t ion to be subm i t ted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF au tho r iza t ion is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations resu lt in foreign control of Togolese es tab l ishmen ts, foreign investors are requ ired to make a pr ior declara- t ion to the MOF. The sale of securities to l iqu id a te an investment abroad is sub ject to pr ior declaration to the MOF. The proceeds in fore ign exchange from the sale or l i q u i d a t i on mu st be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those con s t i tu t ing a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes, but does not requ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market ins t rumen ts through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by non res iden ts of money market in s t rumen ts on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market in s t rumen ts abroad by residents. Sales to l iqu ida te an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or l i q u i d a t i on mu st be surrendered to an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry bank. The issue ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 927 by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are almost nonexistent in Togo, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase and sell options freely. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrow ing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the merchandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submitted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct in- vestment company established in Togo and its parent company located abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires prior MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents The same regulations apply as for financial credits. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Prior MOF approval is required. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, inc lud ing their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to pr ior declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad by a nonresident or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized in termed iary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 928 TOGO Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Real estate investment abroad by residents is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited in a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are controls on purchases when they do not involve direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The ind iv idua ls concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These credits may be granted freely on the condition that they be effected through an authorized bank and be reported to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and legacies, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other Operations Account countries require prior MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Upon presentation of documents jus t i fy ing their income, emigrants may transfer the ir pensions freely through banks. Transfers of more than CFAF 300,000 are subject to the submission of supporting documentation. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to keep liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions are free but subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or the purchase of foreign currency- denominated securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the MOF with approval of the BCEAO. These purchases require prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF w i th the approval of the BCEAO. Investment regulations Abroad by banks The same regulations apply as for foreign investments. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 929 In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Imports and import payments January 1. The statistical tax was reduced to 1% from 3%. Changes During 2000 January 1. A 1% common solidarity fee and a 0.5% levy on ECOWAS imports, based on the c.i.f. value of the imports, were introduced. January 1. The VVAEMU introduced a CET with four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tonga is the Tongan pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control The external va lue of the pa'anga is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand do l lar, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the pa'anga in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervening currency, is fixed daily by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT) on the basis of the U.S. dollar and the other currencies inc luded in the basket. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies must not exceed T$l m i l l ion. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No particular requirements are specified, but settlements are normally made in convertible currencies acceptable to both parties. n.a. n.a. No. Effec t ive June 26, 2000, the administration of the foreign exchange control regulations was transferred from the MOF to the NRBT. Effec t ive Ju ly 5, 2000, the NRBT requ i red compliance with all applications for transfers in excess of $50,000 or its equ iva len t, and it delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and transfers not exceeding that amount. All payments exceeding $50,000 require the pr ior approval of the NRBT. Effec t ive September 14, 2000, all capital payments requ i re the pr ior approval of the NRBT. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res ident i n d i v i d u a ls are allowed to open fore ign exchange accounts. Resident Accounts 930 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 931 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Au thor ized dealers may, w i thout reference to the NRBT, approve applications for import transactions for amounts not exceeding $50,000 or its equivalent. The prior approval of the NRBT is required for transactions in excess of $50,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for all imports, but they are issued freely for selected imports, such as motor vehicles. Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural or environmental reasons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Import tariffs of up to 35% are levied on an ad valorem basis. Imports of a few items (petroleum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific ta r i f fs or ad valorem rates of up to 525%. The tariff rate on motor vehicles is 45%. Imports by the re ign ing monarch, by the pub l ic sector, and by diplomatic missions; imports under certain technical assistance agreements; and imports of personal effects are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items under the Indus- trial Development Incentives Act, which qua l i fy for concessional rates, and imports of the government, which are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 12 months, but th is regulation is not enforced. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are requ ired for all exports we igh ing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted liberally, except for squash. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 932 TONGA Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, provide foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments up to the equivalent of $50,000. The prior approval of the NRBT, with submission of supporting documentation, is required for payments in excess of $50,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Prior approval of the NRBT is required for all capital transactions. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 933 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Licenses are required for direct foreign investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are accepted if there is a local partner. Investment in certain sectors, inc lud ing wholesale and retail; transportation and some tourism-related activities; and all resource-based activities, such as f i sh ing, are allowed. However, jo int ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. The t ime per- iod for the approval process is approximately one week. Once licensed, foreign projects in manufacturing and tourism are f u l ly e l ig ib le for incentives. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts June 26. The adm in is tra t ion of the foreign exchange control regulations was transferred from the MOF to the NRBT. Changes During 2000 July 5. The NRBT required compliance w i th all applications for transfers in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent, and it delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and transfers not exceeding that amount. September-14. All capital payments requ i re the prior approval of the NRBT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) allows the exchange rate to move w i th in a narrow range and maintains an informal ceiling on the exchange rate of TT$6.30 per US$1. No. No. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, w i th the pub l i c without limitation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in Canadian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. n.a. n.a. Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the CARICOM. Trinidad and Tobago is the agent for the inoperative Caribbean Mu l t i la teral Clearing Facility. Authority to administer exchange control is vested in the CBTT acting under the au thor i ty o f th eMOF. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between residents must be an authorized bank. Controls on external trade Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Indus try (MTI) and are subject to specific export licenses, which are norma l ly issued only to monetary authorities. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. 934 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 935 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency For amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$5,000, a customs declaration is required. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in notes up to the equivalent of US$5,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Duty-free licenses are granted to local concessionary manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing. Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics are tightly controlled. All goods, unless exempted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under OGL arrangements. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. In accordance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, the customs duty rates on most goods range from 5% to 20%. The rate on agricultural produce is 40%. The duty rates on new motor vehicles range from 25% to 45%. All goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from duties, as are imports of some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the MTI and the Tourism Industrial Development Company, Ltd. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 936 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO State import monopoly Imports of an imal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded principally by state companies. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repa- triates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. No. No. No. Ind iv idual licenses are required for some foodstuffs, firearms and explosives, animals, gold, petroleum and petroleum products, and certain products not produced locally. Export licenses for all other commodities are granted under OGL. General licenses may also be issued at the discretion of the MTI. Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Financial Institutions Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 937 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Holding interest in real estate is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The reserve requirement applied to domestic currency deposits is 21%. A supplemental reserve requirement of 5% applies, which can be held in treasury securities. A reserve requirement of 9% applies to nonbank institutions. Liquid asset requirements A liquid asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange position limits A liquid asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Insurance companies are required to hold at least 80% of their investment assets locally. The Insurance Act imposes other controls. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in which commercial banks, including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident customers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) intervenes in the market and publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the following day, at the latest. CBT intervention is generally guided by the objective of maintaining the stability of the real effective exchange rate over time. Resident banks trade freely in foreign currencies in the spot market among themselves, with their foreign correspondents, and with nonresident-owned banks in Tunisia. Effective December 31, 2000, based on additional information as to how the exchange rate is determined, the exchange rate arrangement of Tunisia was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category crawling peg. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the interbank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward rates are freely negotiated by the authorized counterpart bank. Forward cover may be estab- lished for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided w i th in 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Resident borrowers of foreign exchange may purchase 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month foreign currency options in dollars and euros. Official cover of forward operations The reinsurance company manages this exchange cover mechanism for banks and f inanc ial institutions in respect of their borrowings abroad. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between Tunisia and other countries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Payments between Tunisia and other countries may be made in dinars from a nonresident convertible dinar account opened in Tunisia in the name of the foreign creditor and the foreign creditor's bank. Such payments may also be made in foreign exchange by transfer- ring the foreign exchange to the nonresident creditor or the creditor's bank, provided that the entity effecting the transfer has received permission to acquire the foreign exchange. 938 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and /or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency TUNISIA 939 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. CBT authorization, pu rsuant to p r ior MOF approval, is requ ired for res iden ts to use any currency other than the dinar as the money of account and the money of payment in transactions between themselves. No. Exchange control is administered by the CBT and the Ministry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks, whereas the MOT administers foreign trade control, wh ich issues import and export authorization for the rema in ing produc ts not covered by the l ibera l iza t ion of fore ign trade. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. The CBT has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Imports and exports of gold in other forms require jo int approval from the CBT and the MOT. Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident travelers w i sh ing to reexport the foreign exchange equ iva lent of amoun ts ex- ceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign currencies they are importing upon the ir entry in to Tun is ia. There is no ce i l ing on the reconversion of Tun is ian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be reexported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by deb i t ing a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also required if the amount of foreign exchange from d inar reconversion exceeds the equ iva lent of D 1,000 der ived f rom the su r render of foreign currencies phys ica l ly imported from abroad. On imports Domestic currency Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically (1) Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) any resident natural person, ( i i) any Tunisian ju r id ical person, and ( i i i) any foreign ju r id ical person in Tun is ia w i th the foreign currency assets in connection w i th the ir activities. These accounts may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 940 TUNISIA Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency credited w i th (i) a max imum of 50% (or up to 100% w i th CBT authorization) of foreign exchange proceeds from the account ho lder's exports and foreign currency loans contracted in conform i ty w i th the regulations in force; (ii) interest accrued on the balances of these accounts; and ( i i i) transfers from the account holder's other professional accounts in the same currency or any other currency. The accounts may be debited for (i) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened, and (ii) any other transaction w i th general or specific authorization. Balances may be placed on the foreign exchange market. (2) Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) natural persons of Tunisian na t iona l i ty changing the ir normal residence to Tunisia from abroad; (ii) resident natural persons of Tun is ian nationality or Tunisian juridical persons for their nontransferable assets leg i t ima te ly acquired abroad; (iii) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; ( iv) foreign ju r id ical persons with branches in Tunisia; and (v) Tunisian diplomats and c iv il servants stationed abroad. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (i) foreign exchange sold on the interbank market; ( i i) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to undertake foreign travel; ( i i i) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and ( iv) any payments abroad, inc lud ing those for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad or ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. A declaration of ho ld ings is required for special accounts only. Residents may open special accounts abroad, but a declaration to the CBT is required. Resident banks may freely open correspondent current accounts abroad. Yes. No. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by resident natural or ju r id ical persons w i th resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the CBT in the authorization to open such accounts. Special accounts in conve r t ib le dinars may be opened by the same natural and jur id ical persons that may open special foreign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be credited w i th the d inar proceeds from sales on the interbank market of funds legitimately acquired abroad, but not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia. They may be debited for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (2) the acquisition of foreign currencies e i ther for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring, or for mak ing payments abroad, particularly for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad, ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities; and (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. A declaration of holdings is required. Special export earnings accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by Tun is ian or for- eign natural persons residing in Tunisia who earn profits from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident company earning profits from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be freely credited w i th (1) 10% (increased from 5% on February 18, 2000) of the export earnings realized by the account ho lder or received from companies in which he or she is a shareholder, (2) proceeds from sales on the interbank market of foreign exchange representing income or revenue from assets acquired abroad by debiting the account, and (3) interest on balances in the account. They may be freely debited for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or offspring; and (3) payments in connection with a current operation or to acquire rights and interests abroad not invo lv ing real property. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts TUNISIA 941 Nonresident Accounts Foreign accounts in conver t ib le currencies may be opened freely by all non res iden ts re- gardless of na t iona l i ty. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) receipts in conve r t ib le foreign currencies (banknotes must be declared at customs); (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) authorized paymen ts by residents in favor of the account holder; (4) interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunera t ive rates; (5) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (6) the amount of cashed checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other cred i t ing requires pr ior authorization from the CBT, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited free ly for (1) paymen ts of any k i nd in Tun i s ia; (2) t rans fe rs abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any o ther non re s ident bene- ficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) transfers to other foreign accounts. Domestic non res ident accounts may be opened f ree ly by au tho r ized in te rmed ia r ies in the name of fo re igne rs res id ing tempo ra r i ly in Tun i s ia. These accounts may be credited w i t h- out au thor iza t ion from the CBT w i th the fo l low ing: (1) transfers of f u n ds carried out in conve r t ib le cu r renc ies from a fore ign coun try; (2) revenue of any k i nd accru ing in T u n i s ia to the ho lder of the account (in par t icu lar the non t rans fe rab le part of r emun e r a t ion for ser- vices rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) l iqu id assets from estates opened in Tun i s ia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans prev ious ly granted in d inars w i th funds from the account ho lder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another in ternal non- resident account opened in the name of the account holder. These accounts may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her fam i ly in Tunisia, (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia, (3) lending to residents, and (4) transfers to another in ter- nal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. Special d inar accounts may be opened freely by fo re ign enterprises ho ld ing contracts in Tun is ia approved by the CBT. Such enterprises are au thor ized to open for each contract a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover the ir local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited w i th funds from a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the d inar equ iva lent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on f u n ds depos- ited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tun is ia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the CBT. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in d inars. Capital accounts may be opened free ly in the name of a non r e s id ent n a tu r al person of for- eign nationality or by a nonresident ju r id i c al person. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the pr ior approval of the CBT, w i th the proceeds of sales on the stock exchange, or the contractual or advance redemption of transferable Tun i s ian securities; w i th the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court, or of rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the l iv ing expenses in Tun i s ia of the account holder and his or her f am i ly up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total w i thdrawa ls from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000. In addition, a capital account ho lder t rave l ing in Tun is ia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the tr ip and surrendered to the CBT, an author- ized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total w i thdrawa ls for the l i v i ng expenses of the account ho lder and his or her f am i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected w i th the man- agement of Tun i s ian securities; for the ma in tenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on cap i tal accounts are freely t rans fe rab le between nonres iden ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty, w i th the ex- ception of j u r i d i c al persons governed by p u b l ic law. Subject to certain cond i t ion s, they may also be debited to assist the account ho lde r 's parents and o f fsp r ing re s id ing in Tun i s i a, at a m a x im um rate of D 50 a person a mon th. These accounts do not pay interest and may not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 TUNISIA be overdrawn. Na tu ral and j u r i d i c al persons of French or I t a l i an n a t i o n a l i ty h o l d i ng cap i tal accounts may transfer all funds in the ir accounts regardless of the date of depos i t. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresidents regardless of na t iona l i ty and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awa i t ing u t i l i z a t ion. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other non res ident accounts. Subject to certain cond i- tions, suspense accounts may be debited, w i thout the prior au tho r iza t ion of the CBT, for purchases of Tun i s i an securities, subscr ip t ions to issues of short-term deben tu res or bonds, por tfo l io managemen t expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the T u n i s i an government o r p u b l ic in s t i tu t ion s, or payment of the expenses of manag ing secu r i t ies de- posited in a suspense f i le opened in the name of the account ho lde r. They may also be deb- ited for settlement of l i v i ng expenses incu r red in T u n i s ia by the account ho lder and h is or her f am i ly up to D 100 a person a week, prov ided that the to tal w i thd r aw a ls in any ca lendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a f am i l y. In add i t ion, a suspense account ho lder t rave l ing in Tun is ia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may w i thd raw from the account an amount equal to the fore ign exchange imported for the t r ip an d surrendered to the CBT, an authorized in te rmed ia ry, or a subagency, p rov ided that total w i thdrawa ls for the l i v i ng expenses of the account ho lder and his or her f am i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a mon th may be debited to assist the o f f sp r ing or parents of the resident account holder. Na tural and ju r id i c al persons of French or I ta l ian nationality ho ld ing suspense accounts may transfer all funds in the ir accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Foreign account s in conve r t ib le d ina rs may be opened free ly by all non re s iden ts regard- less of na t iona l i ty. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th (1) the d i n ar proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the in te rbank market (bankno tes mu st be dec lared at customs); (2) proceeds from au tho r ized paymen ts by res iden ts in favor of the account ho lder; (3 ) proceeds from the convers ion of the amount of cashed checks, t r av e l e r 's checks, or draf ts expressed in fore ign currency and made out by a non re s ident to the order of the account ho lder; (4) transfers from other fore ign accounts; and (5) in terest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these accounts w i t h o ut au thor iza t ion from the CBT, granted e i ther d i rec t ly or by de lega t ion. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any k ind in Tun is ia, and (2) pu r- chases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for d e l iv- ery to the account ho lder, to any other non res ident benef ic iary, or to res iden ts w i th the status o f representatives or salaried employees of the account ho lder. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accoun ts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirement s for imports No. No. Documentat ion requirement s for release of foreign exchange for imports Impor ters mu st receive a customs code. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import license s and other nontar iff measures All imports are free except those that have an impact on law and order, hyg iene, hea l th, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and c u l t u r al heritage, and are effected by an impo rt certificate dom ic i le d w i th an authorized in te rmed ia ry. Goods not l ibera l ized need an impo rt au thor iza t ion granted th rough the MOT. Impor ts of raw ma ter ia ls, sem i f in i shed products, spare parts, and equ ipm ent that are paid from sources outside Tun i s ia and do not i n v o l ve the paymen t or de l ivery of foreign currency may be effected by enterprises for th e ir own use w i thout foreign trade formalities up to a va lue of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exc lus ive ly engaged in exporting goods or services and companies established in a free trade zone may import freely, w i thout foreign trade forma l i t ies, any goods required for th e ir production process, subject on ly to customs declaration. Tun i s ia has signed free trade agreements w i th Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, p rov id ing for the l ibe ra l iza t ion of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs TUNISIA 943 2,000 products, and for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between Tun is ia and the three countries by December 2007. Goods not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cu l tu ral heritage are included in a list issued by decree. Un t il Ju ly 1, 2000, when this requ irement was l if ted, cars of certain categories were temporarily subject to import licenses. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a list of which is drawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical import controls. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for fu ll or partial exemption from import duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Nonresident companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment In- centives Code, as well as nonresident international trading companies and nonresident enterprises constituted in a free trade zone, are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit to their professional accounts up to 50% of their foreign exchange export proceeds and their foreign currency loans contracted in accordance with existing exchange regulations. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Exports of goods covered by the liberalization of foreign trade must be domiciled w i th in eight days of the date of shipment. Preshipment inspection Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Most exports are free, and certain goods may be exported w i th an authorization issued by the MOT. Tun is ia has signed free trade agreements w i th Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, providing for the liberalization of 2,000 products and for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between Tunisia and the three countries by December 2007. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers may be freely executed for freight and storage costs, transit and adm in is tra t ive fees, customs duties, commissions, and payments for services and analyses of materials. Transfers may be freely executed for reimbursement of principal or interest on loans in foreign exchange arranged freely by resident financial institutions and resident enterprises, provided that the loans were concluded in accordance with the regulations in force. Rent from real estate owned by nonresidents may be transferred freely. The annual limits for tourist travel are D 1,000 an adult and D 500 a child under ten years of age. The business allowance for exporters is 10% of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual l im it of D 80,000. This allowance may be accumulated for two consecutive ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 944 TUNISIA calendar years. The annual l im it for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on the previous year's imports, and the annual l im it for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on the previous year's turnover declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for promoters of new projects is a m ax imum of D 5,000 and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the transfer of pensions. A l imony payments to the ex-spouse and children in a definitive judgment are freely transferable. The annual allowance for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health is D 750. Persons accompanying patients may transfer up to D 250 a tr ip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. The annual settlement allowance and the monthly living expense allowances for students studying abroad are D 1,500 and D 700, respectively. Education allowances are freely transferable up to a ceiling of D 6,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The l im it of D 750 for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health may be exceeded if the patient's condition requires several trips abroad dur ing the same year. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Contractually employed foreign nationals may transfer up to 50% of their earnings. For foreign experts employed by the pub l ic sector, limits on transfers are specified in their con- tracts; otherwise, the restrictions for contractually employed foreign nationals w i ll apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Only operators eligible for business travel allowances are authorized to use credit cards abroad. Yes. Those eligible for business travel allowances may use their credit cards abroad only to the extent of the ir transfer entitlements for these allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Subscription fees for journals and periodicals, membership fees, and dues for foreign asso- ciations and organizations; and payments for literary and artistic rights, legal proceedings, arbitrage, and"attorney fees are freely transferable. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents are required to repatriate all remuneration for services rendered to nonresidents and all proceeds from invisible transactions received from abroad. Resident providers of services for profit to nonresidents may retain up to 50% of the ir income from such transactions in their professional accounts. Residents may also retain 50% of their foreign exchange borrowings that have been effected in accordance with the pertinent regulations. Foreign exchange deposited in professional accounts must be used in accordance w i th the rules governing the operation of accounts of this type. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are controls on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 945 On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Stocks may be acquired freely w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stocks with voting rights and for acquisitions that result in foreign ownership exceeding 50% of capital shares listed in the stock exchange and for un l is ted shares, the approval of the High Investment Com- mission (HIC ) is required. Authorization is not required from the HIC for acquisitions of Tunisian securities entailing voting rights or shares in companies established in Tunisia (1) between associates or shareholders in the same company who are foreign nationals; (2) by nonresident na tural or ju r id ical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired w i t h in the l im it of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management ac t iv i t ies of fore ign directors in these companies. Nonres iden ts may sell shares of companies established in Tun i s ia f ree ly. They may also transfer freely net real proceeds from the sale of shares that were purchased with foreign exchange transferred from abroad for an investment made in accordance w i th the legislation in force. The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resident exporters may transfer D 40,000 to D 200,000 annua l ly to finance equity par- t ic ipa t ion in companies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign cur- rency or convertible d inars or special export earnings accounts may purchase securities abroad by debiting these accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The subscription by nonresident foreign nationals of debt securities issued by state or resident companies is subject to approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may acquire freely shares of Tunisian mutual funds with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is required if the acquisition raises the foreign ownership to more than 50% of the mu tual f u n d 's capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts may transfer freely net real proceeds from sales of Tun is ian mu tual fund shares acquired w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Resident banks may engage among themselves and with their correspondent banks in foreign exchange swaps ma tur ing in up to 12 months. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 946 TUNISIA Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions. Commercial credits Yes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits These credits requ i re approval from the CBT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonresident indu s t r ial enterprises established in Tunisia and short-term credits in dinars to finance the local operating expenses of nonresident enterprises established in Tunisia. Resident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and other resident enterprises may freely contract fore ign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l i on and D 3 m i l l i o n, respectively. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency financial loans from nonresidents up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l i on and D 3 m i l l ion , respectively; all other loans require approval from the CBT. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direc t investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee the ir obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guarantees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppliers. The issue and establishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by residents are not subject to approval. A' the request, and w i th the counterguarantee, of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection w i th business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. Outward direct investments by residents require approval from the CBT; however, to sup- port the ir export activities, exporters may freely transfer amoun ts ranging from D 40,000 to D 200,000 a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity participation, and D 20,000 to D 100,000 to cover ins ta l la t ion , maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. Foreigners may invest freely in most economic sectors. However, the par t ic ipa t ion of for- eigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export activities requires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investments carried out legitimately in Tun is ia w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases requ ire pr ior approval from the CBT. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases requ ire pr ior approval from the CBT. Sale locally by nonresidents Authorization is required for sales other than those made to a resident and invo lv ing real estate that is the subject of a land title. These sales are recorded in the Land Registry solely upon presentation of documentation showing that the price was deposited by the buyer to a suspense or capital account ma in ta ined in the name of the vendor in the books of a licensed in termed iary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 947 Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Au thor iza t ion is not requ ired to take possession of an inher i tance established in Tun is ia for the benef it of a nonres iden t. The transfer of proceeds from gifts, endowments, and inheritances not prev ious ly guaranteed is subject to approval. Au tho r iza t ion is not requ i red for g i f ts from nonresidents to residents, and for tak ing possession of an inheritance established abroad for a resident. Proceeds from gifts and inher i tances must be declared and repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer into the country by immigrants Non res ident Tun is ian nationals re turn ing de f in i t ive ly to the country must declare and repatriate the ir assets or proceeds and revenue from the ir ho ld ings abroad. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrow ing abroad Resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to a l im it of D 10 m i l l i o n. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks may freely open correspondent accounts w i th foreign banks of the ir choice. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange The approval of the CBT is required for loans granted by resident banks to nonresidents. However, resident banks may freely grant loans on the foreign exchange money market to nonresident indus tr ial enterprises established in Tunisia for operating expenses and to fi- nance imports and exports. In addition, resident banks may extend d in ar loans to offshore companies to f inance local (dinar-denominated) operational expenses. Such loans cannot be used to purchase foreign exchange and must be located in a special account. Resident banks may freely extend credit to finance import and export operations. They may also lend the ir foreign currency surpluses to other resident banks and to the ir correspondent banks in exchange for loans in another currency w i th the same m a tu r i ty. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Tun is ia has no reserve ratio on foreign currency deposit accounts. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits are freely negotiated between the bank and ac- count holders, except that remune ra t ion of the foreign currency accounts of residents may in no case be more than a half point below the rates of remunera t ion pub l ished by the CBT for foreign currency amounts above or equal to D 10,000. The d inar deposits of nonresidents are included in the calculation of the reserve requ i remen ts base. Interest rates on d inar and convertible dinar deposits of nonresidents are freely negotiated, except in the case of demand accounts, on wh ich there is a cap of 2%. As for fore ign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 948 TUNISIA Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts currency accounts, the ir remuneration is freely negotiated with banks. Dinar balances in suspense accounts and capital accounts do not earn interest. Yes. Approval is required for any acquisition of capital stakes in a bank that may result in the transfer of a significant proportion of a bank's assets potentially changing its financial structure or the focus of its activities. Net open positions of banks operating in the foreign exchange market resulting from both spot and forward transactions are limited to 10% of banks' net equity capital in each currency, with a global l im it of 20% for position in all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Any acquisition on the stock exchange of a twentieth, tenth, f i f th, third, ha l f, or two-thirds of the capital of a company that is involved in public deposit taking must be declared to that company, to the Financial Board, and to the Securities Exchange. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Tunisia was reclassified to the category managed floating with no prearranged path for the exchange rate from the category crawling peg. February 18. The percentage of profits that may be credited to special export earnings accounts in convertible currencies was increased to 10% from 5%. Imports and import payments July 1. The temporary import license requirement on certain categories of cars was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of February 28, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Effective February 22, 2001, the lira was allowed to float. As a consequence, the exchange rate system was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawl- ing peg. Prior to that date, the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) preannounced the exchange rate path of the lira against a basket comprising the dollar and the euro (in amounts equiva- lent to $1 and €0.77). A 0.1% banking and insurance transaction tax is applied to sales of foreign exchange against the Turkish lira. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks may deal with forward transactions w i th in the framework of the open position l im i ts set according to the communique on total net foreign exchange positions/capital base ratio, and there is no limit on forward transactions of precious metal brokerage institutions. Official cover of forward operations Banks may enter into swap transactions with the CBT with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months, provided that the CBT is ready to engage in such transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain commercial transactions with Poland are made through special accounts denominated in dollars. n.a. n.a. There is an agreement with Poland. Barter agreements and open accounts There is a banking agreement with Poland. Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administer the exchange controls, wh i le the Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency (BRSA) and the CBT together regulate and supervise banks' open foreign exchange position limits. Turkey maintains certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. 949 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 950 TURKEY Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Domestic purchases and sales of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by precious metals in termed iary in s t i tu t ions may be conducted on ly at the Is tanbul Gold Exchange. The purchase and sale of prec ious metals and stones or articles therefrom are free w i t h in the coun try. Exports and imports of precious metals and stones or articles therefrom are free. The CBT and the precious metals intermediary in s t i tu t ions that are members of the Is tanbul Stock Exchange (IGE) may import on ly unprocessed gold w i thout be ing subject to the prov is ions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the latter must surrender the gold to the IGE w i t h in three days. Se l l ing operations of imported gold shou ld take place first in the IGE. Banks may open gold deposit accounts for na tural and ju r id ical en t i t ies res id ing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders should surrender processed gold to banks in order to open gold deposit accounts. W i th in the framework of the bank ing regulations, banks that are members of the IGE may extend gold credits to customers. The buy ing and se l l ing prices of gold are freely deter- m ined by banks. The precious metals in termed iary ins t i tu t ions may obtain gold cred i ts from abroad for the ir own account and/or for the accounts of the ir customers. However, gold obtained as a credit should be transferred to the IGE w i t h in three days. Travelers may b r ing in to and take out of the coun try o rnamen tal articles made from pre- cious metals and stones w i th a va lue not exceeding the equ iva lent of $15,000. The export of ornamental articles exceeding th is va lue is dependent on the ir declaration upon a r r ival or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may freely take abroad up to the equ iva lent of $5,000. Travelers may freely take up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 out of the coun t ry. To take out more than th is amoun t, nonres iden ts must declare bankno tes upon arr iva l, and res iden ts must present a document con f i rm ing that the foreign banknotes were purchased from banks and special finance institutions for inv i s ib le transactions. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas TURKEY 951 Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of goods prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition, is allowed only with a special permit. Old, used, reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods may be imported only w i th special permission from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, but certain used goods that are not older than 10 years may be imported freely. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmon iza t ion of Tu rkey 's import policy w i th that of the EU. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 180 days fo l low ing the date of shipment. Exporters are allowed to use those proceeds to offset payments on imports and inv i s ib le transactions. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 180 days fo l low ing the date of shipment to banks or special finance institutions. Exporters may retain export proceeds abroad up to the equivalent of $50,000. If at least 70% of the foreign exchange receipts are surrendered w i th in 90 days following the date of shipment, exporters are entitled to retain the remaining 30%, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts w i th commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes All goods, other than those whose exportation is prohibited by law, decrees, or international agreements, may be exported freely within the framework of the Export Regime Decree. However, within the framework of WTO rules, restrictions and prohibitions on exports may be imposed in case of market turmo i l; scarcity of the goods to be exported; pub l ic safety, morals, and health; or environmental concerns (this also applies to several varieties of flora and fauna). Restrictions and proh ib i t ions also apply to exports of articles bearing artistic, historical, or archeological value. Export taxes are levied on nuts and unprocessed leather. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Cred it cards may be used on a revo lv ing basis up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 for t ravel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled w i th in 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 952 TURKEY Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Purchase abroad by residents Purchases and sales of domestic securities and other instruments by nonresidents and of foreign securities by residents may be effected freely. However, all transactions in securi- ties must be carried out through banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to capital market legislation, and all related transfers must be performed through banks and special finance institutions. Residents may freely issue, introduce, and sell domestic securi- ties abroad. The sale and issue of foreign securities and other instruments by nonresidents is subject to Capital Market Board (CMB) registration. Purchases and sales by residents of securities traded in foreign financial markets may be effected freely, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, special finance insti- tutions, and intermediary institutions authorized according to the legislation on capital transactions, and that the transfer of their purchase value abroad is made through banks and special f inanc ial institutions. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue of these instruments by nonresidents is subject to CMB registration requirements. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. No. The maturity of commodity credits may not exceed two years for nondurab le goods or f ive years for other goods. Residents may obtain freely credits from abroad, provided that they use such credits through the banks or special finance institutions. The max imum ma tur i ty of pref inanc ing credits is 18 months, except in the case Of shipbuilding, where it is 24 months. Credits with a maturity of more than one year must be registered in the debt log maintained by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Residents may freely export capital in cash up to $5 m i l l ion or its equivalent in other foreign currencies through banks or special financial institutions, and capital in k ind w i th in the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation for the purpose of direct investment. Permission for direct investments that require the transfer of capital in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents TURKEY 953 kind or in cash exceeding the equivalent of $5 million is granted by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Permission is required from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury within the framework of the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Law. The m in imum amount of capital to be brought in by foreign investors is $50,000 or its equivalent. Proceeds may be transferred abroad but must be reported to the CBT. Nonresidents may not acquire real estate in military or security areas. The acquisition of real estate by nonresidents in villages is prohibited. Exceptions to this restriction may be granted by the Council of Ministers for activities in the tourism and petroleum sectors. Real estate in villages acquired by nonresidents through inheritance must be liquidated. Outside the boundaries of villages, foreign natural persons may acquire real estate on the condition of reciprocity. However, the acquisition of land exceeding 30 hectares requires the permis- sion of the Council of Ministers. Nonresident juridical persons may acquire real estate to conduct their business and economic activities. However, the real estate may not be used to carry out realty activities. Controls on personal capital movements Personal capital may be freely transferred into and out of the country, in accordance with exchange legislation. Loans By residents to nonresidents The control applies only to credits in kind of more than two years for the export of nondur- able goods, and of more than five years for the export of other goods. Approvals for credits are granted by the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. To residents from nonresidents Controls are applied only to prefinancing credits with a maturity of more than 18 months. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes Resident banks may extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and their foreign exchange de- posit accounts. Such credits may also be effected in Turkish liras, provided that the amount is within the limits determined in the Banking Law for banks or in the commun ique regard- ing special financial institutions. Resident banks may not extend credits in foreign exchange to residents except to those who are exporters, investors, Turkish entrepreneurs working abroad, residents who are conducting business related to international tenders held in Turkey, and residents who are conducting business related to defense industry projects that have been approved by the Undersecretariat of the Defense Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 954 TURKEY Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements With the exception of domestic interbank deposits, the reserve requirement ratio for depos- its in local currency is 4%, while that for deposits in foreign currency is 11%. Banks must place the necessary reserves in a special account held with the CBT. Special f inanc ial houses are obliged to hold reserves of 6% and 11% for domestic and foreign currencies, respectively, collected in current and participation accounts. Banks must hold 8% l iqu id i ty reserves against deposits in local currency, out of which 4% must be held in government bonds, 2% must be deposited in the CBT, and a max imum of 2% may be held as cash in the ir vaults. For other liabilities in local currency, banks must hold 12% l iqu id i ty reserves, out of which 6% must be deposited in the CBT, a m i n im um of 4% held in government bonds, and a max imum of 2% held as cash in the ir vaults. Banks must hold 3% l iqu id i ty reserves against foreign exchange deposits, out of wh ich a m i n i- mum of 1% must be held in government bonds and a max imum of 2% he ld as cash in the ir vaults. For other foreign exchange liabilities, banks must hold 14% l iqu id i ty reserves, out of which 11% must be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 1% held in government bonds, and a max imum of 2% held as cash in their vault. Against their open positions, banks must hold l iqu id i ty reserves solely in lira deposits in the CBT. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements The fo l low ing requirements apply: (1) Deposits in local currency are subject to an 8% l iqu id i ty reserve, of which a m i n im um of 4% must be held in government bonds, 2% deposited in the CBT, and a max imum of 2% held as cash in vau l t; (2) Liabilities in local currency, other than deposits in banks, are subject to a 12% l iqu id i ty reserve, of wh ich 6% must be deposited in the CBT, a m i n im um of 4% held in government bonds, and a max imum of 2% as cash in vault; (3) Foreign exchange deposits in banks are subject to a 3% l iqu id i ty reserve, of which a m i n im um of 1% must be held in government bonds and a maximum of 2% as cash in vault; (4) Foreign exchange liabilities, other than deposits, are subject to a 14% reserve require- ment, of which 11% must be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 1% in government bonds, and a max imum of 2% as cash in vault; and (5) Banks are required to maintain a l iqu id i ty ratio of 100% of their open position in Turkish lira at the CBT. The opening of branches or representative offices abroad by banks founded in Turkey is subject to the permission of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). Likewise, the opening of a company abroad by banks, or banks' participation in a pre- v ious ly established company abroad, requires the permission of the BRSA. Banks that fa il to meet the standard ratios according to the Banks Act may not acquire new shares in partnerships. Any acquisition of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person exceed 10% (previously 5%), 20%, 33%, or 50% of the capital of the bank, and any transfer of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person fa ll below these l im i ts are subject to prior permission of the BRSA. Transactions that result in reducing the number of shareholders to less than five, or in shares being assigned without permission, may not be registered. These rules are valid for the acquisition of voting rights and pledging of shares. The as- signment of preferential shares requires BRSA approval, irrespective of the above l im i ts. All foreign exchange-indexed assets and l iab i l i t ies have to be taken in to account f u l ly as foreign assets and foreign liabilities. The ratio of the total net foreign exchange position to capital base is 20%. On June 30, 2000, banks were required to calculate foreign exchange exposure l im i ts on a consolidated basis. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 955 Provisions specific to institutional investors In accordance with the Insurance Supervision Law, insurance companies may invest their technical provisions only locally. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio he ld locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2000 Cap ital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 30. Banks were required to calculate foreign exchange exposure l im i ts on a consoli- dated basis. Exchange arrangement February 22. The lira was allowed to float. As a consequence, the exchange rate system was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category c raw l ing peg. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Turkmenistan is the Turkmen manat. Exchange rate structure Dual. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The official (cash and noncash) exchange rate is determined at a weekly central bank auc- tion in which authorized commercial banks participate. The official rate has remained unchanged at manat 5,200 per $1. Access to the foreign exchange auction is limited to authorized banks, and bids are screened by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) and the Foreign Currency Committee (FCC). Banks participate in the auctions on behalf of their customers and for transactions approved by the CBT and the FCC. Bids are submit- ted at the rate established in the previous auction; if demand exceeds the foreign exchange supplied by the CBT, the excess demand is shifted to the next session. The commercial banks' cash foreign exchange window is open with respect to a short posi- t ive list of transactions: (1) medical treatment abroad; (2) educational support for students abroad; and (3) official travel by public officers. The CBT charges banks a commission of 1% for converting noncash foreign exchange into cash foreign exchange. There is no buy/sell spread on the official rate. A 50% exchange tax is levied on cash receipts from gas exports. A 20% tax on purchases of foreign exchange by enterprises and ind iv idua ls was eliminated on January 31, 2000. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Russia and a few other countries of the FSU are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payment arrangements are effected in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Barter transactions, other than gas exports, must take place through the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are made in convertible currencies. n.a. n.a. Yes. The bilateral agreements w i th Malaysia and the Islamic Republic of Iran are inoperative. Trilateral agreements are maintained with Armenia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and w i th Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Barter agreements and open accounts There are barter trade agreements, primarily for gas exports to Iran and oil exports to Ukraine, and there is an agreement with Kazakhstan for the export of electricity. 956 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 957 Administration of control The CBT, along with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the Foreign Exchange Committee, and the Tax Authority, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations, depending on the type of operation involved. The use of o f f ic ial foreign exchange reserves is controlled to a large extent by the president of Turkmenistan. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Local and foreign banknotes may be exported and imported freely, provided f u n ds are declared on arrival and departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with local commercial banks. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts These accounts may be opened if the holder possesses a certificate of registration issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER); the authorized bank determines the amount and currency of denomination of interest payable on these accounts. All exter- nal payments made from these accounts must be approved by the CBT; however, cash withdrawals in foreign currency may be made without the approval of the CBT. Yes. W i th the permission of the CBT, Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad for the duration of their foreign residence. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible to hold these accounts. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 958 TURKMENISTAN Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of goods on a small negative list (arms, narcotics, antiques) are prohibited. Ap- proval of the president or the Cabinet of Ministers (CM) is required to import these goods. Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise taxes are lev ied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewe lry, and cars. Goods in transit are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts The private sector and jo in t -ven tu re enterprises are exempt from surrender requ iremen ts, as are pub l ic enterprises in the cotton sector. Surrender requirements for other enterprises are 50%, all of which is to be remitted to the CBT. The gas sector, however, has a surrender requ i rement of 25% in effect in add i t ion to the 50% tax. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes All exports, except gas, have to be channeled through the Stock Commodity Exchange. Quan t i ta t ive and price res tr ic t ions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supp l ies. Taxes collected through the exchange system There is a 50% foreign exchange tax on gas. Also, 0.01% of the va lue of licensed products paid for convertible currencies is collected as a fee. The fee on exports to the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU is 0.1% of the rub le va lue of the licensed product. The customs department also charges an adm in is tra t ion fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments requ i re pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Yes. Yes. After the payment of taxes, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in domestic or other currencies, or transferred abroad. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of d i rect inves tmen ts. Yes. Res iden ts must possess va l id passports to purchase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The l im it is $1,000 a transac t ion, w i th no l im it on the numb er of transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 959 Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to commercial banks, except for the retained portion allowed in the case of enterprises. Effective January 4, 1999, banks have been required to resell to the CBT at the auction rate all foreign exchange received from customers. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to CBT approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The nonresidents' share in the equity of a resident company is limited to 49%. Nonresidents may purchase only registered shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. On money market instruments These transactions are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. There are no transactions in derivatives in Turkmenistan. A CBT license or its approval is required for residents. Nonresidents need only CBT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 TURKMENISTAN Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Investments by juridical persons are permitted, in principle, in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain an authorization from the MFER; if the amount exceeds $500,000, the approval of the CM is required. Foreign participation in joint-stock companies is limited to 49%. Foreign investors have the right to recover investments within six months of liquidation. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions A CBT license is required. Provided the license is granted, no controls apply to ind iv idu al transactions. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. A CBT and/or an MEF license is required, depending on the type of institutional investors. Other controls imposed by securities laws Institutional investors are required to meet m in imum capital requirements. Responsibility rests with the CM, the CBT, and/or the MEF, depending on the type of investors. Exchange arrangement January 31. The 20% tax on purchases of foreign exchange was eliminated. Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Apr il 5, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda shilling. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independently floating The external value of the Uganda shilling is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain transactions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may deal with customers in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, including those for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other cur- rency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. n.a. n.a. Trade and payment agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Following the East African Cooperation Agreement, the Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania sh i l l ings are now freely convertible in the three countries. Excess holdings of Kenya and/or Tanzania shillings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in dollars. Uganda maintains clearing arrangements with Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in dollars with COMESA member countries through the COMESA clearinghouse. Residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. The BOU has delegated a broad range of responsibilities to authorized banks and ex- change bureaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Tourism, Trade, and Industry (MTTI). In accordance with UN sanctions No transactions are allowed with a country facing UN sanctions. 961 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 962 Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade UGANDA Yes. Yes. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only monetary au- thorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Dealing in gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requires licenses issued by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. On the basis of these licenses, the MTTI issues export and import permits. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts No blocked accounts exist; however, an account may be blocked if it is required by law. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of pornographic materials is prohibited. Imports of firearms and ammun i t ion requ ir e special permission. Customs duties are applied at one of three rates of up to 15%. For countries outside COMESA, the rates are zero, 7%, and 15%; for COMESA members zero, 4%, and 6%. Duties for intermediate goods and raw materials range up to 7%, while the rate for machin- ery is zero. Excise duties on imports of tobacco products are levied. Effective Apr il 1, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 963 2000, the temporary duties on soft drinks and automotive batteries were eliminated and the temporary duty on beer was lowered by one-third. On June 1, 2000, the temporary duty on tobacco products was lowered by one-half. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requ irements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Resident foreign na t iona ls may purchase land, whereas non res ident foreign na t iona ls may only be granted a lease not exceeding 99 years. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks must hold 20% of foreign deposits in reserve on the ir own account. Banks must also maintain (unremunerated) cash reserves on deposit with the central bank, amounting to 8% of time deposits and 9% of demand deposits. These requirements are in addition to l iqu id i ty requ iremen ts, wh ich are based on total deposits, regardless of currency denom ina t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 964 UGANDA Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to have an open position equivalent to 20% of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments April 1. The temporary duties on soft drinks and automotive batteries were eliminated and the temporary duty on beer was lowered by one-third. June 1. The temporary duty on tobacco products was lowered by one-half. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ukraine is the Ukrainian hry vnia. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) sets the official exchange rate of the hry vnia as the weighted average of exchange rate transactions by authorized banks in the interbank exchange market. On February 21, 2000, the NBU formally announced a floating rate pol- icy that did not entail any change in intervention modalities. Participants in the interbank market may freely determine the exchange rate without l im it as to the size of the difference between the buying and selling rate or the commission. Juridical and natural persons purchasing foreign currency must pay a 1% tax, which benefits the state pension insurance. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all countries are settled in foreign currencies. Nonbarter trade w i th the CIS and the Baltics is settled either in convertible currencies or in national currencies. Residents may transfer hry vnias to nonresidents through nonresident banks, but they must provide the servicing bank with a certificate from the State Tax Administration of Ukraine (STA) showing that no debt is owed on the budget on the date of the transaction. An NBU license is required if the due date for the delivery of imported goods or of proceeds from exports exceeds 90 days. For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments In certain instances, authorization is required from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. Credit operations Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative An NBU license is required. There are arrangements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other FSU countries. Regional arrangements Yes. 965 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 966 UKRAINE Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Barter is one of the forms of trade for Uk ra in ian companies in the ir transactions, used largely with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU. The use of barter in foreign trade transactions is prohibited for a group of goods determined by the Uk r a in i an Cabinet of Ministers. The NBU, authorized banks, the STA, the State Customs Service, the State Commun ica- tions Committee, and the M in is try of Economy adm in is ter exchange controls. Restrictions on payments and on the provision of financial services to Angola, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Liberia, the Taliban (the Is lam ic State of Afghanistan), and the UN ITA movement in Angola are maintained. Payment arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are required to obtain a license from the MOF to deal in precious stones and metals, except for monetary metals. The NBU licenses commercial bank transactions in precious metals for monetary use. Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Ministry of Economy in consultation with the MOF. Ind iv idual licenses to export precious metals for monetary use are issued by the NBU. Residents were allowed to export up to the equ iva lent of 10 times the nontaxed m i n im um wage (HRV 17), while the l im it for nonresidents is five times the nontaxed m i n im um wage. Effective October 1, 2000, residents and nonresidents may export HRV 1,000 upon oral declaration and up to HRV 10,000 with mandatory customs declaration, wh ich should in- clude jewelry and commemorative coins made from precious metals. An NBU license is required for exports above these limits. Persons traveling on behalf of a resident legal entity may export up to HRV 3,000 with a written declaration, to provide for transportation ex- penses; they may also export proceeds received, if accompanied by suppor t ing cashier documents. Nonresident ju r id ical persons require an NBU license. Effective October 1, 2000, resident and nonresident na tural persons t rave l ing as tour is ts or on personal matters are allowed to export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. Exports of the fo l low ing require a written customs declaration: (1) resources previously imported legally in to Uk ra ine; (2) up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $5,000 in cash withdrawn from an account or purchased from a bank te l ler and/or trav- eler's checks purchased from a bank teller in accordance w i th a certificate from an au thor- ized bank of Ukraine; (3) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots; and, (4) for nonresident natural persons, checks issued by foreign banks and nonbank ing in s t i tu t ion s. An NBU license is required above these limits. Resident and nonresident natural persons traveling on o f f ic ial business are allowed to ex- port up to the equ iva lent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral dec lara t ion. Exports of the fo l low ing require a written customs declaration: (1) resources prev ious ly imported legally into Uk ra ine; (2) up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 in cash and/or t rave le r 's checks in accordance with a certificate from an authorized Uk ra in ian bank; and, (3) for nonresident natural persons, checks that were imported or sent into Ukra ine. For resident ju r id ical persons, exports of the fo l low ing requ i re a w r i t ten cus toms declara- tion: (1) up to the equivalent of $1,000 to provide for transportation expenses; (2) up to the equ iva lent of $2,000 to pay operational expenses for automobiles; and (3) up to the equ iva- lent of $10,000 to pay operational expenses for airplanes and ships (ferries). An NBU li- cense is required above these limits. For non res ident j u r i d i c al persons, all exports of foreign currency r equ i re an NBU l icense. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency UKRAINE 967 Resident and nonresident persons are permitted to import domestic currency up to the amounts declared in a customs declaration upon exit from Ukra ine. An NBU pe rm it is required above these limits. Resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to import up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash, traveler's checks, or checks issued by foreign banks upon oral declaration. Imports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) resources prev ious ly exported legally from Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash; (3) up to the equivalent of $50,000 in checks issued by foreign banks and nonbank ing ins t i tu t ions; (4) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots. Special authorization of the NBU is required above these limits. For residen t ju r id ical persons, imports of resources prev ious ly legally exported in vehicles, as well as proceeds received if accompanied by supporting cashier documents, are allowed with a written customs declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Certain conditions apply to these accounts. A license from the NBU is required, except when the account is opened du r ing a temporary stay abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in cases where an obligation to a nonres ident exists. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. In accordance with legislation in a number of FSU countries, an authorization from the central bank of that country is required in order to open accounts w i th Uk r a in i an au thor ized banks. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign company, firm, or international organization established w i thout the status of a legal entity, through which a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her entrepreneurial activities in Ukra ine. P accounts may be credited with the proceeds from current international transactions from any economic activity in Ukraine. "N" accounts may be opened for official representative offices and representative offices of nonresident legal entities that represent their interests in Ukraine but do not engage in en- trepreneurial activities in the territory of Ukraine; representative offices of foreign banks; and organizations or institutions (program or project administration groups) that imp lement international or technical assistance programs and projects. The holders of N accounts are regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as resi- dents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited with funds by se l l ing fore ign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlements associated w i th the maintenance of the representative office, inc lud ing embassies and consulates; for purposes stipulated by the charter of the international organization; or for an organization or ins t i tu t ion (program or project administration group) to introduce international assistance programs and projects or international assistance. All N account holders may purchase foreign exchange on the interbank currency market to transfer funds abroad to the account of the relevant body whose interests they represent, inc lud ing interest accrued on the balance in the account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 968 UKRAINE Convertible into foreign currency P account holders may (1) convert and transfer to a nonresident legal person (which they represent) the proceeds from transactions effected in Ukraine for the sale of goods and services, interest accrued on deposit accounts and balances in such a type P account, and the balance in an account when ceasing activities in Ukraine; and (2) credit to their own account in foreign currency resources designated for labor compensation of nonresident employees and for business trips and representative office expenses abroad. N account holders other than foreign diplomatic, consular, commercial, and other official missions and their offices may not purchase foreign exchange on the interbank market to transfer funds abroad from their N account. Nonresident natural persons may convert and transfer abroad funds from settlement accounts in hryvnias. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports In order to purchase foreign exchange on the interbank market in group 1 of the foreign exchange nomenclature of the NBU and transfer it abroad to pay for imports, residents must provide the bank w i th copies of the pertinent import contracts. In addition, a resident needs to obtain a certificate from the STA confirming information on the resident's bank account and registration as a taxpayer. A certificate from the STA is also required to trans- fer any foreign exchange to accounts of nonresidents registered in offshore zones. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is not mandatory but may be performed by the Ukrainian Chamber of Com- merce and Industry at the request of nonresidents. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Non ta r i ff measures are l im i t ed to those carried out for na t ional safety and env i ronmen tal reasons. There are three customs duty categories with a trade-weighted average rate of about 5% (including energy imports). The first category (preferred duty rate) applies to goods from countries with wh ich Ukra ine has a free trade agreement, imports from developing coun- tries, and imports from countries that have a preferential agreement with Ukraine. The sec- ond category (concessional duty rate) applies to imports from countries that have entered in to MFN agreements w i th Ukraine. The th ird category applies to imports from other sources. A VAT of 20% is levied on most imports, and some imports are subject to excise taxes. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Exporters must repatriate all foreign exchange proceeds through domestic commercial banks w i th in 90 days of shipment. There is a 50% surrender requirement for resident jur id ical persons and proceeds are required to be channeled through the interbank foreign exchange market. F inanc ing requirements n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas UKRAINE 969 Inspection is not mandatory but may be performed by the Ukra in ian Chamber of Com- merce and Industry at the request of residents. Goods subject to voluntary export restraints or other international agreements and those fa l l ing under the "special export regime"—coal, precious metal scrap, and alcoholic spir- its—are also subject to export quotas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, freely provided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, it is required that sales for the export market be undertaken through the agricultural com- modity exchange. Export contract preregistration is limited to goods subject to voluntary export restraints or antidumping actions. Registration of exports is automatic and for statis- tical purposes only. Export taxes Taxes are applied to exports of sunflower seeds, livestock, skins, and hides. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits A nonresident requires a certificate from the STA stating that there are no outstanding tax liabilities associated with the underlying transaction. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Residents traveling as tourists are allowed to export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration and, w i th mandatory customs declaration, up to the equivalent of $5,000 in cash withdrawn from an account or purchased from a bank teller, and/or traveler's checks purchased from a bank teller in accordance with a certificate from an authorized Ukrainian bank. An NBU license is required above these limits. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Pension payments are made in accordance with agreements concluded between the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the corresponding organizations of other countries. Depending on the purpose of the transfer, transfers in excess of established norms require an NBU license. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Residents may use abroad cards issued by Ukra in ian banks. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limit is $20 for membership dues. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds, except those of a few organizations with international operations, such as the national airlines, are subject to repatriation requirements. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 970 UKRAINE Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On collective investment securities An NBU license is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required if the repayment deadline exceeds 90 days. Financial credits All financial credits must be registered with the NBU. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required. To residents from nonresidents When the credit has a maturity of one year or less, the credit agreement must be registered with the NBU, except for commercial banks. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Commercial banks require a license from the NBU. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments require an individual NBU license. Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are re- quired in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities require a license from the MOF, and investments in the banking sector require a license from the NBU. Foreign investment in Ukraine must be made in convertible ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 9 71 currency or in k ind. The Russ ian r u b le is not regarded as a conver t ib le currency for th is purpose. The transfer of proceeds, after payment of taxes due, is guaranteed. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is requ i red. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required. To residents from nonresidents Natural persons are not allowed to receive loans in foreign currency. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents There are no controls w i th regard to natural persons. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls w i th regard to legal persons. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfers by nonres ident na tural persons are not restricted after settlement of tax l i ab i l i t i e s. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Transfers by nonresident natural persons are unrestricted. Borrowing abroad Borrow ing exceeding one year requ i res registration with the NBU. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) An NBU license is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Effective January 16, 2001, reserve requirements d i f fer for deposits, depending on the type and currency of the resources attracted. An NBU license is required. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Open foreign exchange positions are set according to standards established by the NBU. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 972 UKRAINE Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement February 21. The NBU forma l ly announced a floating rate policy, although this announcement did not entail any changes in intervention modalities. Arrangements for payments and receipts October 1. The ceiling for exports of domestic currency set as a mu l t ip le of the m i n im um wage was replaced by a ceiling of a specified hryvnia amount. The ceilings for exports of foreign currencies were modified. Imports and import payments January L The un i fo rm, nondiscriminatory 2% import surcharge was eliminated. Capital transactions Changes During 2001 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 16. Reserve requirements d iffer for deposits, depending on the type and currency of the resources attracted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. d i rham. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the U.A.E. d irham is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1 w i th in margin s of ±7.25%. The U.A.E. d i rham has maintained a stable relationship w i th the dollar, the intervention currency, since November 1997 at Dh 3.6730 per $1 (buying rate) and Dh 3.6725 per $1 (selling rate). No. No. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) ma in ta ins a swap facility, wh ich the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and to sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, max imum l im i ts of $20 m i l l ion outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 m i l l ion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a l im it of $3 m i l l i on a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. This facility is designed to provide tem- porary dirham l iqu id i ty to commercial banks. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription requirements, but settlements w i th Israel are p roh ib i ted. n.a. n.a. No. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 973 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 974 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Held domestically He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened by banks and by trade, f inanc ia l, and indu s t r ial compan ies incorporated outside the Un i ted Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local institutions in foreign countries; and by embassies and diplomatic agencies. Add i t ion- a l ly, these accounts may be opened by U .A .E. c i t izens wo rk ing abroad and by non res ident foreigners wo rk ing in the Un i ted Arab Emirates. Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F i n a n c i ng requ irements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Only licensed parties may enter the import trade. Importers may import on ly the commodities specified in their licenses. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, security, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Most imports are subject to a customs duty of 4% of the c.i.f. value. Imports of alcohol and tobacco are subject to h igher rates. Imports o r ig ina t ing from members of the GCC are exempt from duties. State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 975 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents At least 51% of the shares of U.A.E. corporations must be held by U.A.E. nationals or organizations. There are exemptions for companies domiciled in free zones, which may be up to 100% foreign-owned. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. No. No. At least 51% of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors; and (2) up to 100% of the equity of com- panies in the hotel industry. Furthermore, nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law. In free zones, up to 100% foreign ownership is permitted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements No. Yes. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the UAECB equal to 30% of their dirham placements with, or loans to, nonresident banks when these transactions have a remaining maturity of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 976 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are not allowed to lend more than 7% of their capital base to one foreign institution. Also, they are not allowed to invest more than 25% of their own funds in shares or bonds issued by commercial companies. Loans to foreign governments with a first-class credit rating and placement in such countries' f inanc ial institutions are exempt from such l im i ts. In banks by nonresidents Nonresidents cannot acquire more than 20% of the share capital of any national bank. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and britannias are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and demand. However, the authorities may intervene at the ir discretion to moderate undue f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. No. No. Yes. The Un i ted K ingdom applies exchange restrictions in accordance w i th UN or EU restric- tions against Iraq, and regarding certain assets of the Taliban (the Islamic State of A fghan i- stan), transfers to or for the benefit of the UNITA movement in Angola, specific assets in relation to certain persons associated with the former government of the Republic of Yugo- slavia, and certain persons related to important government func t ions in Myanmar. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Gold bu l l ion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the Un i ted Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any t ime after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in wh ich gold bars are free ly traded. 977 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 978 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on external trade The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 or more for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of National Heritage. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Yes. Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an OGL. The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are maintained under various EU bilateral agreements w i th third countries that are not members of the MFA; certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements; autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakhstan; EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic; and EU-wide quotas on two categories of goods originating in Ch ina. A double-checking system is in operation w i th the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic on certain steel products. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few articles may be imported under OGLs (i.e., w i thout l im it as to quantity or value). Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 979 State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Financing requirements Documentation requ irements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, an imal welfare, na t ional heritage, and in accordance w i th international agreements. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Controls on personal cap i tal movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Open foreign exchange position limits Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry may prohibit a proposed transfer of control of an important U .K. manufacturing undertaking to a nonresident where the transfer is con- sidered contrary to the interests of the Un i ted Kingdom or a substantial part of it. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensation. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to parliamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. No. No. No. Yes. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.15% non-interest bearing deposit requ irement w i th the Bank of England and may also be subject ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 980 UNITED KINGDOM to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. Amounts between £100 m i l l ion and £400 m i l l ion are eligible for interest payments. This rule applies to banks as well as to building societies. There is currently no special deposit call. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the dollar is determined free ly in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. The United States is a member of the NAFTA. Adm in istrat ion of control No. International security restrictions The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) administers economic sanctions programs involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, Sudan, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, foreign terrorists who threaten to d i s rupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated nar- cotics traffickers, as specified under the fo l low ing: (1) the Cuban Assets Control Regula- tions, (2) the Iranian Assets Control Regulations and the Iranian Transactions Regulations, (3) the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, (4) the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, (5) the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, (6) the Sudanese Sanctions Regulations, (7) the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Kosovo Sanctions Regulations and residual provisions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and Bosnian Serb-Controlled Areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Sanctions Regulations, (8) Executive Order No. 13129 ("Blocked Property and Prohibited Transactions with the Taliban"), (9) the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations, (10) the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, (11) the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations, and (12) the Narcotics T ra f f ick ing Sanctions Regulations and Foreign Narcotics K ingp in Sanctions, respectively. The Treasury has the administrative respons ib i l i ty for blocked accounts of most sanctions targets. Although the comprehensive sanctions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remain in place, the Treasury has authorized most transactions with the Rep- ub l ic of Montenegro. In addition, on October 12, 2000, the president directed the Treasury and Commerce departments to immediately begin l i f t ing the trade and financial sanctions against Serbia, except for those sanctions aimed at specific ind iv idu a l s. The Treasury has 981 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 982 UNITED STATES since l if ted, with some exceptions, the travel and petroleum bans that were then in place. Funds and other property blocked under U.S. sanctions programs remain blocked u n t il provision is made to address claims or encumbrances w i th respect to such f u n ds and property, inc lud ing the claims of the successor states of the former Socialist Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. The Treasury also p roh ib i ts new inves tmen ts in Myanmar, und er the Burmese Sanctions Regu la t ions; restricts certain offshore transactions i n v o l v i ng strategic me rchand ise to cer- ta in countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations; proh ib i ts dona t ive transfers, or those that pose a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States by the government of Syria, under the Terrorism List Governments Sanctions Regulations; prohibits imports into the Un i ted States from certain entities that proliferate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, under the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations; and, effec- t ive June 21, 2000, asserts protective ju r isd ic t ion over property and property interests of the government of the Russian Federation that are in the United States and directly related to the imp lemen ta t ion of the H igh ly Enr iched U r an ium Agreements under Executive Order No. 13159 ("Blocked Property of the Government of the Russian Federation Re la t ing to the Disposal of H igh ly Enriched U ran ium Extracted from Nuc lear Weapons"). Effec t ive January 17, 2001, certain sanctions that had been enacted against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia with respect to the crisis in Kosovo were l i f ted. Certain res tr ic t ions are imposed on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for cu r rent inter- na t ional transactions. On June 19, 2000, foreign assets control regu la t ions were revised to pe rm it most transactions w i th the Democratic Repub l ic of North Korea and its na t iona ls and established a review procedure for the importation of goods therefrom. The Treasury adm in is ters economic sanctions programs on the basis of UN secur i ty coun c il reso lu t ions i n v o l v i ng certain direct or ind i rect f inanc ial or commerc ial transac t ions w i th Iraq, Libya, the UNITA movement in Ango la and i ts sen ior o f f i c i a l s, and the Federal R e p u b l ic of Yugos lav ia. In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade No controls are imposed except for the coun t r ies and groups of persons to w h i ch in te rna t ional secur i ty res tr ic t ions apply. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Ind iv idua ls leaving or entering the United States w i th more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or negotiable bearer securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency conver t ib le into foreign currency Foreign exchange accoun ts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 983 Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The accounts of the following nations and entities are blocked: Cuba and Cuban nationals, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, specially designated narcotics traffickers, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), and funds associated with Highly Enriched Uranium agreements. Certain accounts are also blocked under residual sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and specific entities and organizations located therein and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of most goods and services that originate in Cuba, the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or that were produced or provided by certain entities that proliferate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, or that are owned or controlled by the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), is prohibited unless specially authorized by the Treasury. The importation of certain goods from Angola is also prohibited, unless specially authorized by the Treasury. Effective January 18, 2001, the importation of all rough diamonds from Sierra Leone is prohibited if they have not passed through the certificate of origin process of that country. Bilateral import quota agreements on textiles and clothing exist with numerous countries. These are to be phased out over 10 years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products into the WTO regime over a 10-year transition period, and the gradual phasing out of quan- titative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. Integration is taking place in four stages: in 1995, 16% of the volume of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year 4 and year 7, an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, w i ll be integrated; and after year 10, all remaining products w i ll be integrated. W i th regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States w i ll be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberalization du r ing each year of the transition period. Import tariffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of beverages and tobacco, textiles and clothing, and leather and footwear. As a result of the Uruguay Round, al l tariff l ines are bound. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. The Department of Commerce (DOC) controls the export and reexport of dual-use com- modities, technology, and software for reasons of national security, foreign policy, nonpro- liferation, and short supply. Except for shipment to U.S. territories and possessions, which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 984 UNITED STATES Without quotas are treated as part of the United States, most exports outside the United States are subject to the Export Administration Regulations. Several agencies of the U.S. government maintain export controls on items other than dual-use articles and services: the Treasury, which con- trols certain financial transactions, as well as exports of goods, services, and technology to specific countries and recipients; and the Department of Agriculture, which controls the export of livestock, dairy, and poultry items. Ammunition for military use may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The DOC administers controls on exports of crime control items, detection equipment, and related technologies to most countries that depend on the commodities. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. The control applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be re- stricted by laws on inward direct investment and on establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mutua l funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to (1) nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues exemption by nonresident issuers. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. The control applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The Johnson Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment UNITED STATES 985 defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The Act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. There are controls on certain transactions with or invo lv ing Cuba and Cuban nationals, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Myanmar, Sudan, the UNITA movement and its sen- ior officials, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers. Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. This control applies only to investments that may be restricted by laws on inward direct investment and establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign acquisitions of control that threaten to impair national security may be suspended or prohibited. Investments invo lv ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are controls on certain transactions with or involving Cuba and Cuban nationals, the Is- lamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan), the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, the Federal Republic of Yug- oslavia, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated drug traffickers. The Omn ibus Trade Act contains a provision, the Exon-Florio Amendment, authorizing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, other than the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Exon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of agricultural land by foreign nationals or by corporations in which foreign owners have an interest of at least 10% or substantial control must be reported to the Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose various controls on foreign nationals' purchases of land w i th in their borders. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Banks are subject to prudential oversight in these areas. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to ind iv idual cur- rencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential over- sight. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 986 UNITED STATES Changes During 2000 Arrangements for payments and receipts June 19. Foreign assets control regulations were revised to permit most transactions with the Democratic Republic of North Korea and its nationals and established a review proce- dure for the importation of goods therefrom. June 21. Executive Order No. 13159 was issued regarding the implementation of the Highly Enriched Uranium Agreements. October 12. The president directed the Treasury and Commerce Departments to take im- mediate steps to begin l i f t ing the trade and financial sanctions imposed against Serbia, ex- cept for those sanctions aimed at specific ind iv idua ls. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments January 17. Certain sanctions that had been enacted against the Federal Repub l ic of Yugo- slavia w i th respect to the crisis in Kosovo were l if ted. January 18. The importation of all rough diamonds from Sierra Leone is prohibited if they have not passed through the certificate of origin process of that country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of U ruguay is the U ruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Craw l ing band Exchange tax The exchange rate for the U rugu ay an peso is determined in the exchange marke t, where the Central Bank of U ruguay (CBU) in te rvenes to ensure that the rate rema ins w i t h in a band. The exchange rate band is depreciated d a i ly at a p rede te rm ined mon th ly rate, and the CBU announces i ts in t e rv en t ion b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates d a i l y. The rate of deprec ia t ion against the do l lar is 0.6% per mon th and the total w id th of the band is 3%. Purchases of foreign exchange by pub l ic sector ins t i tu t ions are subject to a tax of 2%, w i th the exception of those by the CBU and o f f ic ial banks, wh ich are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts A ll settlements of balances und er the m u l t i l a t e r al c lear ing system are made in do l la rs. There was an arrangement w i th the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran in effect through J u ly 31, 2000. A b i la teral payment arrangement w i th Cuba is inope ra t ive. Paymen ts between U r u g u ay and the other LAIA coun tr ies may be made th rough accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the central banks w i t h in the f ramewo rk of the m u l t i l a t e r al c lear ing system of the LA IA. Yes. Operations are carried out through banks and f inance houses that have been authorized by the CBU. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell f inanc ial gold w i th a f ine- ness of not less than 0.9. Controls on external trade Residents may free ly import and export gold w i th a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for indus t r ial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, impor ta t ion, and trad ing of goods. 987 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 988 URUGUAY Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accoun ts perm i t ted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic cu r rency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accoun ts Yes. Yes. n .r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs during that period. Under MERCOSUR, a CET exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. There are 11 tax rates. Initially, the maximum rate was 20%. However, a surcharge, imposed in 1997 and scheduled to be removed in 2001, raised this maximum to 23%. Uruguay was granted an exemption to the surcharge for capital and certain intermediate goods. Region- ally produced capital goods and telecommunications goods are subject to tariffs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR are permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET un t il 2001, at wh ich t ime they are to become subject to the CET. In addition, for Uruguay the tariffs on capital goods, telecommunications, buses, and trucks w i ll not be subject to the CET until 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries have been generally eliminated, with certain exceptions. Duties on wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "m in imum export prices," wh ich provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on these goods, depending on the difference between the m in imum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 989 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Occasionally, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considera- tions), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to a 5% tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments The Capital Market Securities and Negotiable Obligations Law provides a framework in which financial markets are largely self-regulating but supervised by the CBU. Mutual and private pension funds, as well as insurance companies, are regulated separately. Although private pension funds must hold an imp l ic it legal m in imum ratio of 55% in the fo rm of government securities, the transitory maintenance of t ime deposits w i th the CBU is permit- ted without limitations. In the pub l ic sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own bylaws, and the central government and departmental governments are covered by the ir own procedures, wh ich are more restrictive. On collective investment securities The Mu tual Funds Law defines ins trumen ts and contains several requ iremen ts regarding conflict of interest and safekeeping. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment n.r. No. The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Investment requires iden t ical treatment of domestic and fore ign investors and free transfer of capital. It provides for certain exemp- tions from wealth and value-added taxes and for the reduction of social security taxes to a 3% rate. It establishes national priorities and provides corresponding incentives. It exempts from tar iffs imported inputs whose domestic production has been reduced or d iscon t inued. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 990 URUGUAY Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t i on al investors L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other contro ls imposed by securities laws There is a m i n im um mandatory reserve requ irement (10%) for local currency and another for fo re ign currency, except for 30- to 180-day deposits, on wh ich the local currency reserve requ i rement is 4% and the foreign currency reserve requ irement is 10%. These reserve requ i remen ts are for currency ho ld ings and notes, and demand deposits at the CBU in the ir respective currencies. There is a m i n im um interest-bearing, mandatory reserve requ irement of 10% in local currency on total deposits and other obligations covered by the non-interest-bearing reserve requ i rement regime. Th is reserve r equ i r em ent may be established by a deposit at the CBU. There is also an interest-bearing reserve r equ i r em ent of 11.5% in foreign currency on total deposits and other obligations covered by the non- interest-bearing requ i rement regime, and it may be established by h o l d i ng do l lar- denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU, excluding those of nonresidents that apply to p lacemen ts w i th nonres iden ts. Non res ident deposits placed w i th nonres iden ts are exempt from the fo re ign cu r rency re- serve requ i remen t. Also, when es tab l ish ing such reserves, the deposit at the CBU should be in an amount of not less than 50% of the m i n im um mandatory reserve requ i remen t. A c e i l ing was established on the asset pos i t ion of fo re ign or local currency of 150% of the book va lue equity less administrative fixed assets (i.e., nonpe r fo rm ing loans that are two years or more overdue, f ixed assets, inves tmen ts, and deferred charges). There is also a ce i l ing on the asset or l i ab i l i ty position of foreign currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., fu tu re contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book v a lue equ i ty less adm in i s t ra t ive fixed assets. Insurance companies must hold a max imum of 5% of total assets, except for l i fe insurance contracts, whe re companies can ho ld 20% of requ ired prov is ions. Pr iva te pension f u n ds are perm i t ted to invest on ly in domestic issuer securities, i n c l u d i ng those issued abroad. These f u n ds must deal in domes t ic fo rmal markets according to CBU regu la t ions. Pr iva te pension f u n ds must ho ld a m i n im um ratio of total assets of 55% in the form of gov- e rnment secur i t ies. In the p u b l ic sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own bylaws, and the central government and depar tmen tal governmen ts are covered by th e ir own procedures, wh i ch are more restrictive. Insu rance compan ies must match assets w i th l iab i l i t ie s. No. Changes During 2000 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of July 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uzbekistan is the Uzbek sum. Until May 1, 2000, there were three exchange rates: (1) the official exchange rate, (2) the exchange rate prevailing on the Uzbek Republican Currency Exchange, and (3) the over- the-counter exchange rate. On that date, the official and commercial bank exchange rates applicable to imports of nonconsumer goods were unified. On July 1, 2000, two exchange rates were introduced: (1) the commercial bank rate applicable to licensed imports of con- sumer goods and (2) the nonsurrendered part of receipts from noncentralized exports and the cash foreign exchange bureau. The two other exchange rates in effect are (3) the official exchange rate and (4) the commercial bank exchange rate applicable to licensed imports of nonconsumer goods; the surrendered part of receipts from noncentralized exports; and en- terprise servicing of government-guaranteed debt. All four exchange rates are determined administratively by the authorities. Effective Ju ly 1, 2001, the authorities allowed free market rates —determined by a supply and demand in the over-the-counter market—to be applied to imports of equipment, raw materials, and services, as well as to service foreign loans. The Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) fixes the official rate on a weekly basis and the commercial bank exchange rates for nonconsumer goods on a daily basis, taking into ac- count current rates in other exchange markets, including the informal curb market. Ex- change rates are fixed in terms of the dollar. Exchange rates for other currencies are deter- mined from cross rates in the international market. A 5% tax applies to purchases of foreign exchange, except those effected from budgetary resources, and those authorized by banks for subsequent sale on the domestic foreign ex- change market. Effective June 1, 2000, the foreign exchange tax was limited to foreign exchange purchases to service government-guaranteed debt and licensed imports of non- consumer goods. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payment agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Transactions w i th other countries are settled in convertible currencies. n.a. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Uzbekistan maintains agreements with Russia and Ukraine. 991 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 992 Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control UZBEKISTAN Agreements with Belarus, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Malaysia, and Moldova are inoperative. Yes. These are effected on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Transactions in foreign currency are administered by the CBU and authorized banks. Commercial banks are allowed to sell foreign exchange to customers only within quotas established by the Republican Monetary Policy Committee. The primary responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) are to regulate foreign economic activities and to represent Uzbekistan in foreign economic interests; to attract foreign in- vestments and provide for their effective use; to develop foreign economic relations; and to certify imports and exports. The Ministry of Justice registers enterprises with foreign investments. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on external trade Gold is imported and exported on the basis of licenses issued by the MFER. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency n.r. Foreign exchange not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500 may be exported without restric- tion. Exporting more than this amount requires confirmation that the foreign exchange was held in an account at an authorized bank that has a general license to operate in foreign exchange. n.r. Individuals may import up to the equivalent of $10,000 in banknotes without restriction. Imports of foreign banknotes above that amount are subject to a customs charge of 1% of the amount in excess of the equivalent of $10,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Following the simplification of procedures for the opening of foreign exchange accounts for small and medium-sized businesses on June 1, 2000, all enterprises, regardless of own- ership, were allowed to open accounts in domestic and foreign currencies at various domes- tic banks. Individuals are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. The CBU must approve the opening of accounts abroad by ind iv idua ls and legal entities that are residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan. CBU approval is not required for accounts opened by resident ind iv idua ls dur ing temporary stays abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a contract that has been preregistered with the MFER before they may purchase foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 993 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening, with prior CBU approval, of foreign exchange accounts is allowed. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a preregistered contract to the MFER before they may purchase foreign exchange. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Local currency accounts of importers may be blocked (with their consent) by banks wh i le awaiting conversion into foreign exchange. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Advance deposits to specific offshore zones and for service payments to these zones are prohibited. Importers who wish to purchase foreign exchange to make an advance payment under an import contract must deposit an average sum equivalent to the advance payment. This deposit is released only after a certification is made that the goods have actually been imported. Preshipment inspection is performed at the importers' request as an alternative to ex ante registration of import contracts. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses All imports are subject to prior contract registration except imports from the importers' own foreign exchange sources. Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective Ju ly 1, 2000, prepayments to prespecified offshore zones and for service payments to these zones are prohibited. Imports of medicines require import licenses from the Ministry of Health; imports of weapons, precious metals and gems, uran ium, and other radioactive substances require import licenses from the MFER; imports of foreign movies and videos require import licenses from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. The importation of publications, manuscripts, video and audio equipment, and photographs aimed at underm in ing state and social order are prohibited. Yes. Tenders are held for imports of major food items (e.g., sugar and wheat). The average tariff rate is 29%; the rate on most consumer goods is 30%. The m in imum import duty is 3%. In addition, excise taxes ranging from 20% to 35% apply to 20 groups of imported consumer goods. A 20% charge is applied to imports of goods bought in duty- free shops in excess of $1,000. Goods shipped in by shuttle traders are subject to a charge of 50% of the va lue in excess of $1,000. The rate for goods sent to individuals is 50% without application of limits established for duty-free imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system There is a 5% tax on the purchase of foreign exchange to effect imports, except in the case of the acquisition of foreign exchange using budget resources. State import monopoly Effective August 16, 2000, imports of foodstuffs deemed to be socially important are centralized through a specialized joint-stock company ("Ozoziqovqatta 'minot"). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 994 UZBEKISTAN Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Proceeds in foreign currencies from nontraditional exports of goods and services are sub- ject to a 50% surrender requirement to authorized banks at the commercial bank exchange rate applicable to licensed imports of nonconsumer goods. Effective Ju ly 1, 2001, exporters were allowed to sell 50% of their export proceeds at free market exchange rates. Proceeds in foreign currencies from centralized exports, including gold, are subject to a 100% surrender requirement to the CBU at the official exchange rate. Goods may be exported provided that a prepayment has been made, an LC has been opened, or a foreign bank guarantee has been obtained. Yes. Yes. Exports of weapons, precious metals, u ran ium, and other radioactive substances requ i re licenses from the MFER; exports of research data require licenses from the State Com- mittee on Science and Technology; and exports of works of art require licenses from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Exportation of crude oil, gas condensate, l int and cotton fiber, and ferrous metals is sub- ject to export licensing in the amount of established quotas. Exports of sugar, ethanol, vegetable oil, wheat and f lour products, meat and poultry, tea, raw hides and skins, dr ied m i lk, antiques, scrap metal, silkworm cocoons, and raw silk are prohibited. Enterprises producing and exporting goods to CIS countries in freely convertible currencies are exempt from VAT and excises. Excise taxes apply to exports of certain types of goods. An excise tax is applicable to alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, construction materials, and cigarettes exported by trading companies. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Effective April 1, 2000, nonresidents must pay for services provided by Uzbek enterprises in convertible currencies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Effective Ju ly 1, 2001, the conversion of profits into foreign currency and the repatriation of such were allowed. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 995 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Surrender requ i remen ts also apply to proceeds from exports of services. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. n .r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. Controls on credit operations All credit and guarantee operations are subject to controls. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Enterprises established abroad w i th the par t ic ipa t ion of Uzbek investors mu st be registered w i th the MFER. Enterprises may establish jo int ventures as foreign direct investment upon registration w i th the M in i s t ry of Jus t ice. Foreign equity capital par t ic ipa t ion is allowed up to 100%. A foreign participation of at least 30% is required for access to fiscal incentives. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal cap ital movements Loans Gifts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. n . r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 996 UZBEKISTAN Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks are allowed to make loans in foreign currencies, subject to the l im it on the foreign currency open position. Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. No. Exchange arrangement May 1. The official and commercial bank exchange rates applicable to imports of nonconsumer goods were unified. Changes During 2000 June 1. The foreign exchange tax was limited to foreign exchange purchases to service government-guaranteed debt and licensed imports of nonconsumer goods. July L The 5% foreign exchange tax was abolished for foreign exchange purchases other than at the official exchange rate and the commercial bank exchange rate applicable to nonconsumer goods imports. July L The commercial bank rate applicable to licensed imports of consumer goods and the nonsurrendered part of receipts from noncentralized exports and the cash foreign exchange bureau were introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 997 Resident accounts June L The procedures for opening foreign exchange accounts were s imp l i f ied for small and medium-sized businesses. June 1. All enterprises, regardless of ownership, were allowed to open accounts in domestic and foreign currencies at various banks. Imports and import payments July 1. Prepayments to prespecified offshore zones and for service payments to these zones were prohibited. August 16. Imports of foodstuffs deemed to be socially important were centralized through a specialized joint-stock company. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April 1. Nonresidents were required to pay for services provided by Uzbek enterprises in convertible currencies. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement July 1. The authorities allowed free market rates —determined by a supply and demand in the over-the-counter market —to be applied to imports of equipment, raw materials, and services, as well as to service foreign loans. Exports and export proceeds July 1. Exporters were allowed to sell 50% of their export proceeds at free market exchange rates. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 1. The conversion of profits into foreign currency and the repatriation of such were allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vanua tu is the Vanuatu vatu. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The externa l va lue of the va tu is determined on the basis of an und isc losed transac t ions- weighted (trade and tour ism receipts) basket of currencies of Vanua tu 's ma jor t rad ing partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanua tu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks U.S. dollars only. However, it also deals in Aus t ra l ian dollars, New Zealand dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and Japanese yen w i th other customers. The RBV quotes rates da i ly for the vatu against the above currencies. Buy ing and se l l ing rates of the va tu against the cu r ren- cies in the basket are quoted once a day w i t h in marg ins rang ing between 0.25% and 0.30% around the m idd le rate. n.r. n.r. On February 23, 2000, the RBV declared that it would not honor requests for forward exchange contracts. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion o f control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically n.r. n.a. n.a. n.r. n .r. No. No. n.r. n.r. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 999 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts The decision to approve the convertibility of domestic currency accounts into foreign currency is left to commercial banks. Blocked accounts n.r. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of frozen chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products. Bans on imports of animals and animal products from Europe and the United Kingdom as well as on chicken and poultry products from Australia are in effect for health reasons. Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. Yes. Import duties have a structure of eight rates ranging from zero to 30%. Most basic items are now duty free, and the rate of protected goods is 30%. Effective January 1, 2000, duties on certain imported commodities under the protected goods category were reduced to 50% from 55%. Additionally, the VT 385 duty per liter of fuel was reduced to VT 350. Effective January 1, 2001, duties on imported meats, f ru it juices, ice cream, and some forms of soap were reduced to 45% from 50%. On that same date, import duties on some forms of paints and pigments were reduced to VT 315 from VT 350. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements n.r. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution iooo VANUATU Documentation requirements n.r. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes The exportation of logs and flitches has been banned for env ironmen tal reasons. Under special circumstances, small parcels of logs may be exported if they cannot be processed by any company in Vanuatu. Any proposal to export logs requires approval of the Council of Ministers. Export permits issued by the Env ironmen tal Un it and Forestry Department are also required for sandalwood and rare or endangered species. For conservation purposes, exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother-of-pearl, aquarium fish, and crustaceans, as well as coconut crops, are subject to authorization. Exports of copra and cocoa are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB). Exports of kava may be undertaken by ind iv idu- als, subject to authorization from the Quarantine Office. Exports of artifacts that have a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. There are taxes on exports of logs, unworked shells, and wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark and sapwood or roughly squared. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers n.r. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. n . r. n . r. n .r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n .r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 1001 Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement February 23. The RBV declared that it would not honor requests for forward exchange contracts. Imports and import payments January ]. Duties on certain imported commodities were reduced to 50% from 55%. The VT 385 duty per liter of fuel was reduced to VT 350. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January I. Duties on imported meats, f ru it juices, ice cream, and some forms of soap were reduced to 45% from 50%, and duties on some forms of paints and pigments were reduced to VT 315 from VT 350. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA (Position as of January 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1976. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela is the Venezuelan bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate is determined by supply and demand, but the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV) intervenes in the market. The CBV determines the reference exchange rate daily. Effective January 1,2001, the central rate and annual adjustment to the central rate are Bs 700 per $1 and 7%, respectively. The exchange rate band is ±7.5% around the central rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Payments between Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela and the other LAIA countries, Jamaica, and Malaysia may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the CBV. Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Yes. No. No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external public debt that is under litigation. The CBV regulates, under the terms agreed upon with the government, the import and export of gold and its alloys in all forms, as well as their purchase, sale in the domestic market, and taxation. The exportation of nonmonetary gold and its alloys in any form (other than jewelry for personal use) is subject to prior authorization from the CBV. The CBV may authorize the export of gold bars up to 85% of local production; the remainder is to be sold to the domestic market. 1002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1003 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of banknotes are subject to pr ior authorization from the CBV. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts These apply only in cases of inheritance, preventive jud ic ial measures, and narcotic traff ick ing activities. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Some imports are subject to l icens ing for env i ronmen ta l, health, or security reasons. Effec- tive January 1, 2000, import licenses on sugar cane, m i lk and its derivatives, and various types of oils and fats were introduced. Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense M in is try. Imports of nonm i l i- tary weapons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affairs and Justice. The importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. No. A number of agr icu l tural products (142 tar iff lines, or 2.12% of total lines) are subject to tariff quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1004 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Other non tar if f measures There are m i n im um prices for certain imports. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Community. The tariffs on imported components for vehicles are 35% for passenger cars; 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles, except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 35%; and 3% for vehicle components. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that in- cludes exemptions from customs tariffs. There are mu l t ip le trade agreements ranging from free trade with Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru (the Andean Community), Chile, and Mexico to partial scope agreements with Argentina, Brazil, the CARICOM and the CACM, Cuba, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago. There was a temporary surcharge of 15% over import duties on about 800 products and a customs hand l ing fee of 2%; effective January 1, 2000, this surcharge was eliminated, and the customs handling fee was reduced to 1%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts F inanc ing requirement s Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes The state petroleum company is required to surrender its export proceeds to the CBV. No. No. No. There is an export tax on hydrocarbons. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au thor iza t ion from the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1005 Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au tho r iza t ion from the CNV is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au thor iza t ion by the CBV is requ ired. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are some regulations for market participants. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered w i th the SIEX after the fact; approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Republics Bolivariana de Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the commercial code. The SIEX must, however, be notified w i th in 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. Investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Owners of direct investments have the right to reexport the proceeds of l iqu ida t ion; however, the SIEX checks the performance of the commitments of foreign investors in accordance with national legislation. Controls on real estate transact ions No. Controls on personal capital movements Banks must report to the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis any transfer above $10,000, or its equ iva len t, to or from another coun try. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange There are l im i ts regulated by the CBV in re la t ion to fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i t s. Reserve requirements Reserve requirements of 17% apply to deposits, obligations, and debit operations. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Reserve requ i remen ts of 17% apply to deposits, obligations, and debit operations. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The open foreign exchange positions of f inanc ial institutions and their da i ly variations are subject to the l im i ts established and regulated by the CBV. On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1006 REPUBLIC A BOLIV ARI AN A DE VENEZUELA Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments January 1. Import licenses on sugar cane, m i lk and its derivatives, and var ious types of oils and fats were introduced. The temporary 15% surcharge on about 800 products was eliminated, and the customs hand l ing fee was reduced to 1%. Exchange arrangement January 1. The central rate and annual adjustment to the central rate were set at Bs 700 per $1 and 7%, respectively. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vietnam is the Vietnamese dong. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative The State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) quotes as interbank market rate the daily average ex- change rate in the interbank market during the previous business day. Participating banks may not quote rates representing more than a 0.1% depreciation of the previous business day's official rate. No. No. The SBV permits commercial banks and some economic entities to enter into forward and swap transactions with maturities of one to six months. The rate is set daily by the commer- cial banks within ranges, i.e., the percentage depreciation of the spot exchange rate is set at the time of signing the formal exchange contract. The SBV does not enter into forward or swap transactions with commercial banks. Economic entities, however, are allowed to enter into forward and swap transactions with commercial banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Vietnam maintains bilateral payment arrangements with Belarus, China, Lao PDR, and Russia. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the SBV. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in bullion requires a license, Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold bu l l ion and bars require a license. 1007 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1008 VIETNAM Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Ind iv idua ls are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or D 5 m i l l ion, whichever is lower. Ind iv idua ls are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or the equivalent of $3,000, whichever is lower. For financial institutions, SBV permission is required. For individuals, amounts in excess of D 5 m i l l ion must be declared upon entering Vietnam. For ind iv idua ls, amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs. For f inanc ial institutions, SBV permission is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident organizations w i th foreign currency sources originating from current transactions, capital transactions, or other stated sources are entitled to open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts at authorized banks for receiving and making payments, remittances, and transfers in foreign exchange as specified by the SBV. Resident private individuals who receive foreign currency transfers from abroad via banks or who bring foreign currencies into Vietnam and have a border-gate customs certification, together with other legal sources of foreign currencies, are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at licensed banks. These accounts may be used for receiving overseas remittances for the export of goods and services or for assistance funds allowed by law; cash from overseas (certified by border-gate customs offices); transfers in foreign currency or account transfers for salaries, bonuses, or allowances; and other sources of foreign currency permitted by the SBV. The accounts may be used for making payments to overseas organizations or individuals for goods or services provided to organizations and individuals in Vietnam who are allowed to invoice in foreign currency for certain goods provided and services rendered; remitting foreign currency abroad for certain per- sonal purposes; selling foreign currency to credit institutions that are allowed to conduct foreign exchange activities; withdrawing foreign currency in cash for savings and other stated purposes; investing in foreign currency —denominated securities; and other stated purposes as specified by the SBV. Depositors are entitled to earn interest in foreign currencies and to w i thdraw principal and interest in foreign currencies. Resident enterprises operating in specified sectors that contract with foreign organizations may open and use foreign currency accounts overseas, subject to the submission of various documents to and approval of the SBV, to facilitate the conducting of current overseas transactions; to deposit security for international bid contracts; to conduct clearing transac- tions; or to meet the requirements of treaties, agreements, or commitments signed with foreign countries, foreign-invested enterprises operating in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of Vietnam, and certain credit institutions. Other organizations not en- gaged in the above-mentioned activities but that wish to open and use an overseas foreign currency account must obtain the approval of the Prime Minister or the SBV. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1009 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Non res ident organizations operating in V ie tnam and non re s ident organizations or i n d i v i d u- als operating overseas (1) that transfer foreign currency into the country upon entering V ie tnam and hold the appropriate border-gate certification, or (2) that carry other legal sources of fo re ign currency into V ie tnam are en t i t led to open and ma in ta in fore ign currency accounts at licensed banks. In add i t ion, holders of non res ident fore ign currency accounts are permitted to make withdrawals in either foreign currency or dong. Nonres iden ts who have domestic cu r rency converted from fore ign currency and other legal income may open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The budget is ind ica t ive on ly and, therefore, not b ind ing. F inanc ing requirements for imports Pr ior i t ies are assigned to certain types of imports. Highest pr ior i ty is given to critical im- ports, such as petroleum products and fertilizer. Lowest priority is given to imports of goods that compete w i th domestically produced goods and impor ts of other consumer goods. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs No. Domestic f i rms are allowed to import any goods that are in l ine w i th commercial and cor- porate laws. Trading by foreign-owned f i rms may only be carried out in accordance w i th the registered business activity of the enterprise. The importation of certain products is controlled by other ministries for broadly defined health, safety, and moral reasons. Prohibited imports are weapons, ammun i t ion, explosives, and other m i l i tary equ ipmen t; nonmedical drugs and toxic chemicals; reactionary and/or pornographic materials; fire- works and c h i l d r e n 's toys that de t r imen ta l ly in f luence personality, education, social order, and safety; cigarettes (exc lud ing l im i ted quan t i t ies imported d u r i ng personal travel); most used consumer goods; most used vehicles, in c lud ing bicycles and motorcycles, and used vehicle parts; and some types of passenger vehicles. All import quotas are forma l ly approved by the government. The Ministry of P lann ing and Investment (MPI), in coordination with the MOT, may also impose ad hoc temporary quan- t i ty controls. Imports of steel, cement, fertilizer, petroleum products, and sugar are subject to quan t i ta t ive controls. In addition, the imports of certain ceramic and granite f loor t i les, glass products, newspaper and other p r i n t i ng paper, some types of construction steel, vege- table oils, sugar, motorcycles, and some types of cars with less than 16 seats require an import license from the MOT. A broad range of additional non tar iff measures exists. Import ta r i f fs range up to 50%, and there are 15 ta r i ff rates. Most imports of mach ine ry, equipment, and med ic ine are exempt from tariffs. Certain imports of foreign enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment, are also exempt from tar iffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft d r inks, cosmet- ics, and automobiles. E f fec t ive Ap r il 1, 2000, quan t i ta t ive restrictions were removed on 9 of the 19 products subject to such restrictions, but remained on alcohol, cement, fe r t i l ize r, glass, granite and ceramic tiles, automobiles, motorcycles, paper, petroleum products, steel, sugar, and vegetable oil. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution i o io VIETNAM Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts originating from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. All resident enterprises are required to sell 50% of the ir foreign currency to banks. Non- profit organizations are required to sell 100%. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Proh ib i ted exports are weapons, ammun i t ion, explosives, and other m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t; antiques; nonmed ical drugs and toxic chemicals; t imber and t imber products from na tu ral forests; w i ld and/or rare na t ive animals; and certain plants. State-owned f i rms w i th an annual export turnover of more than the equ iva lent of $5 m i l l i on may obtain permanent direct foreign trading rights, whereas those w i th an annual export turnover in the range of $2 m i l l ion to $5 m i l l ion may obtain temporary direct fore ign trad- ing rights. Exports of rice, and of textiles and garments in quota-regulated markets are subject to quotas. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval All transactions requ ire i n d i v i d u al authorization from the MOF. Payments for inv i s ib l es related to authorized imports are not restricted. Effec t ive November 1, 2000, fore ign enterprises were allowed to buy foreign currency from commercial banks to pay for their current and other permitted transactions. In the event that commercial banks are not able to meet foreign currency demand, the government w i ll sell foreign currency partially or entirely to enterprises whose foreign currency balance is met or supported by the authorities, respectively. Profit and dividend remittances were subject to a tax of 5% to 10%. Effective J u ly 1, 2000, the tax on profit and d iv idend remittances was reduced to a range of 3-7%, depend ing on the capital con tr ibu t ion of the foreign investor. Indicative limits/bona fide test In fo rma t ion is not available on ind ica t ive l im i ts for interest payments. Payments for travel Prior approval For foreigp currency provided from a bank's account, SBV permission is not required. For foreign currency provided from other sources, SBV permission is requ ired. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Credit card use abroad Other payments Prior approval For foreign currency provided from foreign currency accounts, SBV permission is not re- qu ired. For foreign currency provided from other sources, SBV permission is requ i red. n.r. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM ion Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Surrender requirements All proceeds o r ig ina t ing from current transactions by res ident entities must be repatriated imm ed i a t e ly. All resident enterprises are required to sell 50% of the ir foreign currency to banks, except for foreign-owned enterprises without government guarantee for foreign exchange bal- ances. Nonprofit organizations are required to sell 100% of their foreign currency. Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are the same as w i th other foreign exchange ho ld ings. Controls on cap i tal transac t ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market ins trumen t s On capita l market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Controls are imposed on all transactions in capital and money market instruments and in collective investmen t securities. Foreign i n d i v i d u a l s and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to ho ld up to 20% of an issuer's cu r rent shares, of wh ich each organization is allowed to ho ld 7% and each i n d i v i d u al 5% . Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign ind iv idua ls and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 40% of an issuer's bonds, of which each organization may hold 10% and each ind iv idual 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is requ ired. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t iv e inves tment secur i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts SBV approval is requ ired. Purchase abroad by residents SBV approval is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1012 VIETNAM Controls on credit operations Enterprises are subject to external borrowing ceilings and the fu l f i l lment of certain other conditions. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents For short-term credit, borrowing enterprises must observe the required conditions of the SBV. For med ium- and long-term credit, enterprises may sign contracts and then register the borrowings and repayment schedules with the SBV before disbursement, based on con- d i t ions required by the SBV. State-owned enterprises' borrowing contracts must be ap- proved by the SBV. The borrowing enterprises must report the borrowing and repayment schedules to the SBV. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents n .r. To residents from nonresidents The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment SBV approval is required for state-owned enterprises to borrow externally under guarantee from nonresidents. Outward direct investment requires an MPI permit. Enterprises engaged in these in- vestments must open an account with a bank with foreign exchange authorization and must register such accounts with the SBV. All related transactions must go through these accounts. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the MPI for projects over $1 m i l l i on or its equ iva len t; for projects under $1 m i l l ion, authority is granted by the pro- v in c i al authorities concerned. The forms of foreign investment are regulated by the relevant investment laws. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors but must be leased from the state. Controls on personal capital movements There are controls on all personal capital movements. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies For grants and inheritances, the max imum amounts allowed are the equivalents of $5,000 and $10,000, respectively. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration w i th the SBV is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad SBV approval is required. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Registration w i th the SBV is required. Permission is granted to residents only for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) borrowing to pay for imports of goods and services; (2) investment projects approved by the prime minister; (3) export projects involving manufacturing or trading; (4) borrowing under the terms of discounting the export documents; (5) borrowing to pay external loans in advance that have been guaranteed by domestic credit institutions and that meet certain criteria; and (6) bor- rowing of temporary guest workers in foreign countries as regulated by the SBV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1013 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits The reserve requ iremen ts on domestic dong and long-term foreign currency deposits are 5%. The reserve requirement on short-term foreign currency deposits is 12%. Credit institutions' lending rates must not exceed a base rate periodically announced by the SBV plus margins specified by the SBV. The SBV has gradually increased max imum limits on open positions in ind iv idual foreign currencies to 15% from 10%. The open position l im it for local currency is 15%. The aggre- gate open position l im it remains unchanged at 30%. Forward and swap positions are in- cluded in the calculation of open position l im i ts. These regulations apply to all banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments April 1. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions were removed on 9 of the 19 products subject to such restrictions. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers July I. The tax on profit and d iv idend remittances was reduced to a range of 3-7%, depend- ing on the capital contribution of the foreign investor. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers November L Foreign enterprises were allowed to buy foreign currency from commercial banks to pay for their current and other permitted transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Repub l ic of Yemen is the Yemeni r ia l. Exchange rate s truc ture Un i t a ry. Classification Independently f loa t ing tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Con t ro ls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among res iden ts Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion o f control The exchange rate of the rial is determined by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. n.a. No. Exchange control authority is vested w i th the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). In t e rna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrear s O f f ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (co ins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of rial banknotes are prohibited. On impor ts Domestic currency Impor ts o f r i al banknotes are p roh ib i ted. Foreign exchang e accoun ts permitted Yes. He ld domes t ica l ly Yes. Resident Accounts 1014 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domest ic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1015 Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Yes. Some imports are banned for secur i ty and re l ig ious reasons, and three categories of goods are banned for economic reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as we ll as certain types of used mach ine ry. E f fec t ive March 28, 2000, the rema in ing import ban (other than for security, health, and religious purposes) was eliminated for eight categories of f ru i ts and vegetables, as we ll as for coffee. Th is ban was replaced by ta r i f fs rang ing from 5% to 35% and a seasonal ban restricting imports of certain f ru i ts and vegetables du r ing the local har- vest season. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Cu r ren t ly, there are f ive ta r i ff rates: 5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 35%. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports are reg is tered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are p roh ib i t ed. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Contro ls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1016 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. Yes. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions D i f f e r e n t i al trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Short-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector are prohibited. Approval by the Council of Ministers is required for contracting med ium- and long-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector. Yes. No. L iqu ida t ion of direct investments is free for approved and registered projects. No. No. Foreign exchange deposits held at the CBY are nonremunerated. Commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations regarding currency exposure and to report their positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2000 Imports and import payments March 28. The remaining import ban (other than for security, health, and religious pur- poses) was eliminated for eight categories of fruits and vegetables, as well as for coffee. This ban was replaced by tar iffs ranging from 5% to 35% and a seasonal ban restricting imports of certain fruits and vegetables during the local harvest season. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (Position as of June 30, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is the dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Effective January 1, 2001, the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) sets the exchange rate of the dinar daily based on the value of the deutsche mark in the foreign exchange market on the previous day. Prior to that date, the dinar was pegged to the deutsche mark at the rate of YUD 30 per DM 1. Authorized banks purchase and sell foreign exchange in the interbank market at mu tua l ly agreed rates. The NBY purchases and sells foreign exchange in the interbank market to service external payments and to maintain adequate foreign exchange reserves. Middle rates are calculated using the arithmetic means of the rates applied to fore ign exchange-denominated purchase and sales contracts. The margin for these rates is ±0.3%, but this may be widened to ±2.5% at the discretion of the NBY governor. Authorized banks and foreign exchange offices are allowed to charge a commission of up to 0.2%. n.a. If the exported goods or services were contracted, and payment made, in convertible for- eign currency, juridical persons are entitled to a refund of customs and other import duties, as well as to other incentive payments. For exports of merchandise, the calculation is based on the free Yugoslav border parity; for exports of services, the calculation is based on the amount after deduction of foreign costs. The rates applied for re fund of customs duties vary for different types of economic activities, but range from 0.23% to 7.71%. An enterprise that has collected payment for exports of merchandise is entitled to a partial refund of freight paid for rail, maritime, or air transportation from the Yugoslav border to the destination at rates of 1.5% to 2.5%. Additional incentives are offered for certain agriculture and food industry exports, at rates from 1% to 6.4%. Forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted, provided they have terms of delivery from 30 days to one year and they are concluded at the rates agreed upon be- tween the contracting parties. The NBY may set max imum and m in imum purchasing and selling rates and may impose temporary restrictions or bans on such transactions. Official cover of forward operations n . r. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents n.a. n.a. 1017 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1018 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control n.a. Exchange con trol is carried out by the federal au tho r i t i es and the NBY. N a t u r al and j u r i d i- cal persons, entrepreneurs, and agencies and organizations are subject to these controls. The NBY supervises the opera t ions of authorized banks and the Yugos lav Bank for In terna t ional Economic Cooperation, as we ll as the Post Office Savings Bank. The NBY effects exchange control over exports and impor ts of goods and certain services carried out by residents by imposing documen ta t ion requ iremen ts. Customs au tho r i t ies control the export and import of foreign currenc ies, local cu r rency, securities, and gold taken out of or brought into Yugoslavia or transmitted by ma il or other means. They also control the export of fore ign exchange by au tho r ized banks. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. n.a. n.a. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Domestic and foreign persons may take out banknotes up to YUD 500 a person in denom ina t ions of YUD 10 or less. Exports of d inar banknotes by ma il or other means is subject to NBY approval. These ex- ports are permitted for num i sm a t ic purposes- -in wh ich case up to three sets of all bankno te denominations are allowed for each approval -and to allow the testing of automatic te l ler machines, prov ided that the f irms guarantee the banknotes w i ll be re tu rned when the tes t ing is completed or, at the latest, w i th in three months after the b i l ls are received. An au tho r ized bank may, subject to NBY approval, export fore ign cu r rency for the purpose of rep len ish ing its account w i th a foreign correspondent bank. Approval is granted if the bank in ques t ion is authorized to perform payment operations on ly or to perform payment operations and credit transactions w i th foreign countries, and if the NBY has not restricted such operations of the bank in que s t ion. Authorized banks are obliged to fu rn i sh the NBY w i th a copy of the prescribed documen ts as ev idence of payment w i th in ten days of exporting fore ign cu r rency. These documen ts must be certified by the relevant customs au thor i ty on the date of export. Furthermore, a statement of the authorized bank 's fore ign account mu st be subm i t ted as proof that the approved amount of foreign currency was deposited to rep len ish the account. Domes t ic and fore ign persons may b r i ng in up to YUD 500 a person, in d e n om i n a t i o ns of YUD 10 or less. Employees of Yugo s lav ra i lways and i n t e r n a t i o n al a i r l i n es may impo rt the local cu r rency that they collect from domestic and foreign persons pay ing for domestic goods consumed w h i le in t r an s i t. The post office is obliged to rem it ma il and other sh ipmen ts of d inar banknotes to a separate d i n ar account m a in t a in ed w i th the Federal Foreign Exchange Inspectorate. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly J u r i d i c al persons and en t rep reneu rs may ho ld fore ign exchange accoun ts w i th au tho r ized banks for the fo l low ing purposes: to deposit foreign exchange from exports of goods or services; for loans ob ta ined domes t ica l ly and abroad; and in connec t ion w i th the sale of transport documen ts to domestic persons on in te rna t ional air, m a r i t im e, ra i lway, and road ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Approval required Held abroad Approval required FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1019 transport, or for services rendered on international lines. Effec t ive June 30, 2001, j u r i d i c al persons and en trepreneurs may deposit in authorized banks foreign exchange proceeds from other transactions as well. Prior NBY approval is required to deposit export proceeds and other paymen ts collected in cash into such accounts. Yes. The NBY may authorize ju r id i c al persons or entrepreneurs to ho ld a fore ign exchange ac- count w i th a bank abroad for the fo l low ing purposes: to carry out capital projects abroad, up to the amount agreed upon by the inv e s tm ent contractor and the bank, in conve r t ib le foreign currency or local currency; to serve as security or assurance of the proper and t ime ly execu t ion of specified projects if the fo re ign party demands it or if the fore ign coun- try's legislation requires it; to pay for the operating costs of a representative office or bus i- ness u n it established abroad to carry out business activities; and to pay for costs of a do- mestic person engaged in render ing services in in te rna t ional fre ight and passenger t ra f f ic or insurance industries, up to the amount of the average mon th ly costs from the prev ious year, as established on the basis of accounting records. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts w i th authorized banks in the fo rm of demand deposits and t ime deposits under the cond i t ions prescribed by the NBY. Deposits may be held in currencies traded on the domestic foreign exchange marke t. Payments into the fo re ign currency accounts of fore ign ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons may be made as transfers or, in certain cases, as cash payments. Account holders may use the foreign exchange in the ir accounts to make d inar payments in Yugos lav ia, to t ran s fer foreign exchange abroad, and to make fore ign exchange paymen ts abroad or domestically, in accordance w i th existing regulations. Cash payments may be effected from the foreign exchange accounts of in te rna t ional hu- man i ta r ian and other organizations, the accounts of fore ign persons to be used for h um a n i- tarian purposes, and from the accounts of foreign d ip loma t ic representative offices and the nonresident members and employees of these offices. A bank may not cancel or re tu rn to the fo re ign exchange account any d i n ar d i sbu r semen ts effected from foreign currency accounts of foreign persons. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts J u r i d i c al persons and en t rep reneu rs may pay in advance- p rov ided that th is option is s t ipu- lated in the contract— for imports of equ ipment and spare parts for the maintenance of capital assets; raw materials and intermediate goods; spare parts; drugs and medical supplies; soft- ware; i n d u s t r i al property rights; know -how; m o v ie r igh ts; books, magazines, and p u b l i c a t i o ns of a scientific, cu l tu ra l, or educational character; and imports re la t ing to domestic services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1020 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Payments through LCs are not considered prepayments. Juridical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to import prepaid goods or perform pre- paid services w i th in 60 days from the date of payment. If the prepaid import does not take place w i th in th is period, the domestic person w i ll be obliged to recover the prepaid foreign exchange w i th in f ive days after the expiration of that period. n.a. An estimated 920 tariff items (10.8% of total) are subject to quantitative and value quotas. An estimated 83.6% of all tariff items may be imported freely. Yes. Licenses are required for 480 (or 5.6%) of total tariff items, including grains, such as wheat, barley for beer, and maize; wheat and maize f lour; sugar; sunflower, soybean, and maize oil; used tires and clothing; iron and steel products; tractors; buses; cross-country vehicles; medical equ ipmen t; narcotics; dangerous materials; and armaments. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly n.a. n.a. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Jur id ical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to collect payment for exported goods, as well as other claims, w i th in the agreed time period, which may not exceed 60 days. The NBY may, upon request, extend this period by another 60 days at most, provided an appli- cation is made before the end of the statutory time l im i t. Economic activities carried out in free and customs zones are also subject to these l im i ts. Proceeds for services rendered in air; railway; road; maritime; river; and post, telephone, and telegraph traffic must be collected w i th in the stated time limits and in accordance with the procedures stipulated in international agreements. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are required for 319 (or 3.7%) of total tariff items, inc lud ing live animals, such as cattle, pigs, and poultry; meat; milk; beans; grains, such as wheat, barley for beer, and maize; wheat flour; sugar and molasses; fodder; raw leather; unfinished wood; metal scrap; narcotics; dangerous materials; and armaments. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Jur id ical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to collect payment for services rendered, as well as other claims, w i th in the agreed time period, which may not exceed 60 days. The NBY may, upon request, extend this period by another 60 days at most, provided an appli- cation is made before the end of the statutory time l im i t. Economic activities carried out in free and customs zones are also subject to these l im i ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1021 Proceeds for services rendered in air; ra i lway; road; maritime; river; and post, telephone, and telegraph traffic must be collected w i th in the stated time limits and in accordance w i th the procedures stipulated in international agreements. Capital Transactions Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement December 20. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia rejoined the IMF. Changes During 2000 Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts January 1. The NBY began setting the exchange rate of the dinar daily, based on the value of the deutsche mark in the foreign exchange market on the previous day. June 30. Legal persons and entrepreneurs may deposit in authorized banks foreign exchange proceeds from non-transport-related activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of March 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independently floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zamb ian kwacha. No. Un i tary. The official rate is market determined, and the spread between the Bank of Zambia's (BOZ) buying and selling rates is currently fixed at 1.6%, but can be adjusted w i th in a range of 1-2%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assistance funds, and export earnings), the BOZ determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the market through the dealing w indow. The exchange rates preva i l ing in the interbank market fo l low closely those established at the BOZ's dealing w indow. Corporate entities w i sh ing to offload currency amoun ts in excess of the equ iva lent of $100,000 onto the foreign exchange market may do so through the BOZ's dealing w indow. Commercial banks are allocated the foreign exchange at the marginal rate struck at the BOZ auction on behalf of corporate entities. This rate is also the BOZ's buy ing rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. n.a. Zambia is a member of COMESA and SADC. All exchange controls have been abolished. The M in is try of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade arrangements. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ ire approval from the M in is t ry of Mines. 1022 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1023 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amoun ts exceeding the equ iva lent of $5,000 must be declared for statistical purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accoun ts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreig n currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No . Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. A license for the trade of pe tro leum products is requ i red. The license is granted by the Energy Regulation Board to all oil-marketing companies that undertake to adhere to specific gu ide l ines pertaining to fuel u p l i ft and import, pricing, and storage. Licenses for statistical purposes ar e also requ i red, but they are granted au toma t ica l ly by comme rc ial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, d ip loma t ic shipments, and veh ic les brought in tempo ra r i ly are exempted f rom th is requ i remen t. Negative list There are restrictions on imports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and ivory. Import taxes and/o r tar iffs MFN tar iff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, there is a 5% import declaration fee. A number of products are sub ject to specific rates. Imports from COMESA coun tr ies are subject to a tariff equivalent to 60% of the MFN tariff. Some imports are exempt under the Investment Act . State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ irements F inanc ing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1024 ZAMBIA Documentation requirements All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Export declarations are required for most goods (mainly for statistical purposes), although they are administered routinely by commercial banks under authority delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. There are restrictions on exports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and ivory. Wh i te maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the BOZ, subject to the requirement that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. For commercial credits, all borrowing must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Information on borrowing abroad must be submitted to the BOZ for statistical purposes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Un t il March 19, 2001, when this requirement was eliminated, foreign currency demand deposits were limited to 25% of total foreign currency deposits. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective March 19, 2001, the overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits of regulatory capital were reduced to 15% and 10%, respectively, from 25% and 20%. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure l im i ts may be maintained w i th in prudential limits as established in a written policy state- ment by the bank's or financial institution's board of directors. However, these exposure limits may not exceed 30% and 20% of regulatory capital, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1025 On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2000 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2001 March 19. The foreign currency demand deposit requ irement was e l im ina ted. March 19. The overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure l im i ts of regulatory capital were reduced to 15% and 10%, respectively, from 25% and 20%. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure l im i ts were not allowed to exceed 30% and 20% of regulatory capital, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31, 2000) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of Z imb abwe is the Z imb abwe d o l l a r. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass if icat ion Craw l ing peg The exchange rate of the Z imbabwe do l lar was de facto pegged at Z$38 per US$1 u n t il end - Ju ly 2000 , based on an agreement between the Reserve Bank of Z im b a bwe (RBZ) and commercial banks. On August 1, 2000, the exchange rate was devalued by 24% and a c raw l ing pe g arrangement (w i th a ±5% band around the central rate) was put in place. Since then, the exchange rate has been adjusted per iod ica l ly on the basis of the in f l a t ion d i f fe ren t ial between Z imbabwe and its trading partners. Accordingly, the exchange rate arrangement wa s reclassified to the category c r aw l i ng peg from the category c o n v e n t i o n al pegged arrangement. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchang e market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requ iremen ts Controls on the use of domestic cu r rency Use of fo re ign exchange among residents Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of 17 currencies freely conve r t ib le th rough au tho r ized dealers, w i th the exception of paymen ts o the rw ise specified or effected through nonres ident accounts. n.a. n.a. There is an arrangement w i th Malaysia. Effec t ive August 1, 2000, the RBZ and Bank Ne- gara (Malaysia) renewed a US$50 m i l l i on bilateral trade and payment arrangement aimed at p romo t in g trade w h i le m i n im i z i ng the use of fore ign exchange. Th is arrangement was first signed in 1991 but was largely inoperative. The arrangement prescribes that the RBZ pay for Z imbabwe exports to Malaysia in Z imbabwe dollars w h i le Bank Negara of Malay- sia pays for Malaysian exports to Z imbabwe in r ingg i t. The net balance in transac t ions between the two central banks is then settled in U.S. do l lars on a quar ter ly basis and at the market exchange rate. A dm i n i s t r a t i o n of control Exchange control is adm in i s t e r ed by the RBZ und er powers delegated to it by the MOF. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrear s O f f i c i al Private Yes. Yes. 1026 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Contro ls on trade in gold (co ins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Fore ign exchange accounts permitted ZIMBABWE 1027 No person, either as p r inc ipal or agent, may deal in or possess gold un less that person is (1) the ho lder of a l icense or pe rm i t; (2) the ho lder or d i s t r ibu tor of a registered m i n i ng location from wh i ch gold is be ing produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons men t ioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an emp loyer or p r i n c i p al to deal in or possess gold that is already in the law ful possession of such emp loyer or p r i n c i p a l. A m i n i ng comm iss ioner may issue to any person a pe rm it au tho r iz ing the a cqu i s i t ion, posses- sion, or disposal of any gold, p rov ided the quan t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, perm iss ion can be issued only by the Secretary for M ines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Go ld Trade Act: a gold dea l- ing license, a gold recovery works l icense, and a gold assaying license. Each ho lder or d i s- t r ibu tor of a registered m i n i ng location is requ i red to lodge w i th the ho lder of a gold dea l- ing license, not later than the ten th day of every mon th, a ll gold won by h im from h is m i n i ng loca t ion, except any gold for w h i ch the M i n i s t er or m i n i ng comm i s s ion er has g i v en h im special au tho r i ty to deal in o therw ise. Any person i n t e n d i ng to sme lt go ld or any a r t ic le con t a in ing gold mu st f i rst ob ta in a l icen se issued by a d i s t r ict comm i s s ioner u n d er the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that au thor izes the possession of sm e l t ing e q u i pm e n t. The exportation of gold in unm anu f a c tu r ed form is con t ro l led and l icensed by the M i n i s t ry of M ine s; these con tro ls do not app ly to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The impo r ta t ion of gold is con t ro l led by the Go ld Trade Act, w h i ch r equ i r es those i n t e n d- ing to import gold in to Z imbabwe to meet certain requ i remen t s. Trave lers may take ou t, as part of t h e ir travel a l lowance, up to Z$2,000. As part of t h e ir travel a l lowance, t rave le rs may a n n u a l ly take out up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$500 a day for bus iness travel and up to US$5,000 for ho l iday t rave l. Non r e s id ent trav- elers may take out the t rave le r 's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to au- thorized dealers. Upon departure, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Z imbabwean cu r rency in to fore ign cu r renc ies on presen ta t ion of exchange certificates. A t rave ler may b r ing in up to Z$2,000. Foreign currency and t rave le r 's checks may be imported w i thout res t r ic t ion but mu st be sold or exchanged in Z imbabwe on ly th rough au thor ized dealers or fo re ign exchange bureaus. Resident Accounts Re s ident i n d i v i d u a ls may open fore ign cu r rency accounts (FCAs) in one of the d e n om i- nated cu r renc ies in local b ranches of au thor ized dealers. Funds in these accoun ts are traded at m a rk e t -d e t e rm in ed exchange rates. Funds w i thd r awn f rom these accounts and conver ted i n to local cu r rency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the amount of the i n i t i al inve s tment and income or capital gains from inve s tmen ts in l is ted compan ies on the stock exchange or money market accounts. E f fec t ive August 4, 2000, the RBZ a l lowed gold producers, ho r t i cu l tu re producers, and tobacco fa rme rs to operate FCAs. These producers rece ive 20% of th e ir paymen ts in fore ign cu r renc ies w i th w h i ch they may purchase imports. He ld domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Approval required Accounts in domest ic currency he ld abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1028 ZIMBABWE Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency A resident may on ly convert funds in a domestic account into foreign currency when purchasing traveler's checks for holiday travel payments. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited w i th foreign currencies, w i th payments from other non- resident accounts, or w i th payments by residents that would be e l ig ib le for transfer outside Z imbabwe. Nonres ident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident ind iv idua ls may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of author- ized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds w i thd rawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the in i t ial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may on ly convert domestic currency accounts into foreign currency when emigrating and taking out the ir surplus earnings. Yes. On ly former residents res id ing outside Z imbabwe may ma in ta in emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets he ld in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Effec t ive January 2, 2000, authorized dealers are no longer permitted to effect advance paymen ts for impor ts w i thout prior RBZ approval. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Au thor ized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, p rov ided the necessary documen ta t ion is subm i t ted. Payments for imports into Z imbabwe may not be made in domestic currency through a local nonres ident account. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs The negative list for imports includes, in addition to items restricted for health or security reasons, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewe lry items. Yes. No quotas are in force, but seasonal res tr ic t ions are applied to certain ag r icu l tu ral products. Imports of certain goods (mostly ag r icu l tu ral and processed food products) requ i re a special pe rm it issued by the M in is t ry of Lands and Ag r icu l tu re. The customs du ty regime consists m a in ly of ad valorem duties, wh ich ranged up to a max imum of 70% for luxu r ies with a surtax of 15% on f in ished goods, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equ iva lent to the sales taxes imposed on goods sold domestically. Gov- e rnment imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. E f fec t ive September 1, 2000, a new tar iff structure was introduced, reduc ing the numb er of ta r i ff items to 5,900 from 7,080 and reduc ing the max imum tariff rate to 70% from 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1029 State import monopoly Maize may be imported only by the Gra in Marke t ing Board or by others w i th the perm is- sion of the Board. Petroleum is imported by the Na t ional Oil Company. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i thou t quotas E f fec t ive February 1, 2000, exporters are requ ired to surrender 50% of th e ir export proceeds to banks to be allocated for the Na t ional Oil Company of Z imbabwe, Ltd. (NOCZIM), the Z imbabwe E lec tr ic i ty Supp ly Au tho r i ty (ZESA), and deb t-serv ice payments of the governmen t. E f fec t ive A p r il 3, 2000, au thor ized dealers were requ i red to set aside amoun ts equal to 25% of the ir fore ign currency paymen ts towards the p r i- ority sectors, instead of 50%, as was o r i g i n a l ly requ i red. On May 1, 2000, the govern- ment decided to appor t ion tobacco fo re ign exchange proceeds as fo l low s: (1) 25% of the tobacco fore ign currency ea rn ings are to be sold up - f ront to NOCZ IM and ZESA; (2) 20% of tobacco fo re ign exchange proceeds are to be cred i ted to the Tobacco G rowe rs Pooled FCAs. This amount is allocated for a Z imbabwe Tobacco Au tho r i ty resource committee to f inance the procurement of inpu ts for the tobacco growers; (3) 27.5% of the tobacco export proceeds are to be sold to the RBZ. The RBZ app l ies the fore ign exchange proceeds towards gove rnment debt service and the b u i l d up of o f f i c i al reserves; (4) the r em a in ing 27.5% are to be used by au thor ized dealers to cater for all o ther import requ i remen ts. On May 9, 2000, au thor ized dealers were ins t ruc ted to buy 25% of all fo re ign cu r rency receipts to on-sell to the p r io r i ty arrears, ZESA, and NOCZIM. Effective August 4, 2000, 20% of export receipts are paid by the RBZ to gold producers in conver t ib le currency , wh i ch they may place in fore ign exchange accounts. Goods may not be exported w i thout perm iss ion un less the customs au tho r i t ies are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or w i ll be made w i t h in three mon ths of the date of sh ipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in foreign currency t rans fe r red in to Z imbabwe through the bank ing system, except when there are special arrangements. Yes. Yes. Export licenses are requ ired for the f o l l ow i n g: ( 1) any ore, concentrate, or o ther manu fac- tured product of chrome, copper, l i t h i um, n icke l, t in, or tungs ten; (2) pe t ro leum produc ts; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or ra il tankers for carry ing l i q u i ds or s em i l i q u i d s; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) w i ld animals and w i ld animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8 ) ammon ium n i tra te; and (9) armamen ts. Expor t- l icens ing r equ i r em en ts are imposed for reasons of hea l th and social we lfare, as we ll as to ensure an adequa te dome s t ic supp ly of essential products. Export pe rm i ts are requ i red from the M i n i s t ry of Lands and Ag r icu l tu re for some basic ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies, i n c l u d i ng ma ize, oilseeds, cheese, m i lk, seeds, potatoes, c i trus fruits, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange to pay for i n v i s i b l es related to imports and, w i t h in certain l im i t s, for other purposes is prov ided by commerc ial banks under delegated a u t h o r i t y. A p p l i c a t i o ns ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1030 ZIMBABWE Trade-related paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits for fo re ign exchange exceed ing the l im i ts es tab l ished for comme rc ial banks are approved by the RBZ, w h i ch deals w i th each case on its me r i ts. R equ i r ed for payment of comm iss ions. The l im i ts for f re ight and insu rance are 30% of f.o.b. v a lue of goods transported, but for goods that are of excep t ional mass in re la t ion to va lue, up to 80% of the f.o.b. v a lue may be approved. For comm iss ion, the f o l l ow i ng l im i ts app ly: (1) con fo rm ing comm i s s ion —up to 2.5% of c . i .f. v a lu e; (2) b u y i ng comm i s s ion —up to 5% of f.o.b. va lue; (3) fo re ign t ravel agents- up to 10% of sales; and (4) s e l l ing comm iss ion -up to 7.5% of f.o.b. v a lu e. Indicative limits'/bona fide test Yes. Inve s tmen t - re la ted paymen ts A ll inves tmen t - re la ted transfers are subject to p r ior RBZ approva l. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Paymen ts for t ravel Prior approval Quantitative limits Requ i red for payment of prof i ts and d i v i d e n d s. Spec if ic app l ica t ions are subm i t t ed to au tho r ized dealers for approval w i t h o ut reference to the RBZ. A corporation may be au thor ized to rem it by way of d iv id ends to foreign shareholders, i n c l u d i ng d i v i d e n ds due to former residents of Z imbabwe, up to 100% of the co rpo ra t ion 's net after-tax profits, p rov ided that an app l ica t ion for the rem i t tance of a d i v i d e nd is subm i t- ted to an au thor ized dealer w i t h in 12 mon ths from the end of the f i n a n c i al year in respect of w h i ch the d i v i d e nd is payab le. Yes. Yes. The basic fore ign exchange a l lowance for travel is the e q u i v a l e nt of US$5,000 a year a person regardless of age. The basic fore ign exchange a l lowance for bus iness t ravel is up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$500 a day. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits R em i t t an c e of p en s ions of fo rmer res iden ts is guaran teed u n d er the con s t i tu t ion. W i th RBZ approva l, fo re ign exchange is p rov ided for educa t ion abroad beyond the secondary school level for certain d i p l oma and degree courses. For med ical t rea tmen t, the l im it is the equ iv a l ent of US$20,000 a t r ip for the pa t ient and one comp an ion. A travel a l lowance up to the equ iv a l ent of US$250 a person a day may be a l lowed. Fo r s tud ies abroad, the l im it is the equ iv a l ent of US$50,000 a year, and the annu al l im it is the equ iv a l ent of US$2,000 for a l imony and c h i ld support payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test A p p l i c a t i o ns for add i t ional amoun ts must be subm i t ted to the RBZ for approval. Foreign workers' wages Expa t r ia te workers may rem it t h e ir m o n t h ly salaries, subject to RBZ app rova l. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test C red it card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Am o u n ts o f up to a t h i rd of gross salary may be rem i t ted. Yes. Yes. C red i t cards may be used abroad for h o l i d ay and bu s ine ss t ravel on ly, up to the l im i ts set for those transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test O ther paymen t s Prior approval Yes. Yes. Quantitative limits The a n n u al l i m it for sub sc r ip t ions for a company is the e q u i v a l e nt of US$20,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1031 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from inv is ib les must be sold to authorized banks w i th in a reasonable period of t ime. Restrictions on use of funds On ly surp lus funds are requ ired to be repatriated through the bank ing system. Controls on capital transact ions Inward transfers of capital th rough no rmal b ank ing channe ls are not restricted. Ou tward transfers of capital are con t ro l led. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are perm i t ted to participate in the Z imbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) us- ing currency received in Zimbabwe through normal bank ing channels. The i n i t i al invest- ment p lus any capital gains and d iv idend income may be remitted w i thout res tr ic t ion. For- eign investors may also subscribe for up to 35% of pr imary issues of bonds and stocks. Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase bonds and stocks from the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonres ident investors are a l lowed to sell the ir bonds and stocks in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Former residents ho ld ing blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest th e ir f u n ds in gove rnment external bonds. The term of the bonds depends on the d i scount rate offered to the government by the investor. For investments pr ior to May 1993 under current legislation, d is inves tment proceeds on the original amount of the investment q u a l i fy for remittances, but any capital appreciation that arises from reva lua t ion of the investment goes to the "blocked funds," wh ich are then converted into six-year bonds at a 4% interest rate and a variable ratio of remittances al- lowed, depending on the discount offered. However, if the amount of capital appreciation is small, it may u sua l ly be repatriated w i thout any restriction. For inves tmen ts made after May 1, 1993, current legislation dictates that proceeds from any d i s inve s tment may be remitted w i thout restriction. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1032 ZIMBABWE Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Yes. Yes. No de r iva t ive transactions w i th foreign currency imp l ica t ions are permitted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The l im it on foreign borrowing w i thout prior approval of the External Loans Coordinating Committee is the equ iva lent of US$5 m i l l ion. Gold producers under tak ing new expansion projects are permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. By residents to nonresidents Residents are not permitted to provide credit to nonresidents without RBZ approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment These investments require RBZ or MOF approval on a case-by-case basis. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Direct foreign investment in various sectors is subject to the prior approval of the Zim- babwe Investment Center, normally with the fo l low ing conditions: (1) up to 100% foreign ownership is allowed in the fo l low ing priority sectors: manufac tur ing, m in ing, quarry and mineral exploration, and development of hotels for tourism; (2) up to 70% foreign share- ho ld ing is permitted in specialized services such as management consultancy and con- struction, etc.; and (3) a maximum of 35% foreign ownership (reserved sector list) is allowed in selected sectors where foreign investors w ish ing to participate may only do so in joint-venture partnership with Zimbabwean firms or individuals. The reserved sector list is as follows: (a) primary production of food and cash crops; (b) primary horticulture; (c) game, w i l d l i fe ranching, and livestock; (d) forestry; (e) f ish ing and fish farm ing; (f) poultry farming; (g) employment agencies; (h) estate agencies; (i) valet services; (j) armaments manufacture, marketing, and distribution; (k) pub l ic water provision for domestic and indus tr ial purposes; (1) rail operations; (m) grain m i ll products; (n) bakery products; (o) sugar products; (p) tobacco packaging and grading; and (q) tobacco products. All foreign investments, irrespective of the ir source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since May 1993 may be repatriated. In all cases, specific applica- tions must be submitted to the RBZ in respect of repatriation of capital. Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equity is allowed for invest- ments effected before 1979. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants ZIMBABWE 1033 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. App l ica t ions for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may rem it abroad is l im i ted to the equ iva lent of US$1,000 a person or US$2,000 a fam i ly. In exceptional cases, the exchange control authorities w i ll consider applications exceeding this max imum. All those applying for emigrant status are requ ired to l iqu ida te the ir assets w i t h in six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling- in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwe government external bonds. If emigrants are unab le to comply with the six-month l im i t, the matter may be referred to the RBZ. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred, except the first prize. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing abroad is subject to exchange control rules and regulations and the External Loans Coordinating Committee. Maintenance of accounts abroad Ma in ta in ing accounts abroad is subject to exchange control ru les and regulations. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing to nonres iden ts is subject to exchange control ru les and regulations. However, it is usua l ly not perm i t ted. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to exchange control ru les and regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange There are ru les that allow for d i f f e r en t i al treatment of local exporters and companies operating in the export promotion zone. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls app ly to mortgage rates of b u i l d i ng societies. Inves tment abroad by local banks in offshore entities is subject to exchange control approval. Acqu ir ing equity by nonresidents in local banks listed on the ZSE is subject to the ZSE's ru les and regulations. For banks not listed in the ZSE, these are subject to exchange control approval. Au tho r ized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure l im i ts. The net open position limits of foreign exchange dealers is the equivalent of US$2 m i l l ion or 10% of the ir capital base, and the ir capital requirements are 5% (core/Tier I) and 10% (total capital). On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1034 ZIMBABWE On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Prov is ions specifi c to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad L im i ts (m in .) on investment por tfo l io he ld locally Local ins t i tu t iona l investors are not permitted to invest in securities registered offshore. Yes. Yes. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is l im i ted to 40% of the total equity of the com- pany, w i t h a l im it of 10% for one investor. These l im i ts are in add i t ion to any existing foreign shareholdings in the companies. Currency-matching regulation s on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2000 Exchange arrangement August 1. The exchange rate was devalued by 24% and a craw l ing peg arrangement (w i th a ±5% band around the central rate) was put in place. Accordingly, the exchange rate ar- rangement was reclassified to the category crawling peg from the category conven t ional pegged arrangement. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 1. The RBZ and Bank Negara (Malaysia) renewed a US$50 m i l l ion bilateral trade and payment arrangement. Resident accounts August 4. The RBZ allowed gold producers, hor t icu l ture producers, and tobacco farmers to operate FCAs. These producers receive 20% of the ir payments in foreign currencies w i th wh ich they may purchase imports. Imports and import payments January 2. Authorized dealers were no longer permitted to effect advance payments for imports w i thou t prior RBZ approval. Exports and export proceeds September 1. A new tariff structure was introduced, reducing the number of tariff items to 5,900 from 7,080 and reducing the max imum tariff rate to 70% from 100%. February 1. Exporters were required to surrender 50% of the ir export proceeds to banks to be allocated fo rNOCZ IM, ZESA, and debt-service payments of the government. April 3. Authorized dealers were required to set aside amounts equal to 25% of the ir for- eign currency payments towards the priority sectors, instead of 50%, as was o r ig ina l ly required. May L The government decided to apportion tobacco foreign exchange proceeds. May 9. Authorized dealers were instructed to buy 25% of all foreign currency receipts to on-sell to the priority arrears, ZESA, and NOCZIM. August 4. Twenty percent of export receipts are paid by the RBZ to gold producers in convertible currency , wh ich they may place in foreign exchange accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate Reg ime (N um b er of countries) Exchange a r r a n g em e nt w i th no separate legal tender (39) Cu r r en cy board a r r a n g em e nt (8) Other conven t ional fixed peg a r r ang em ent ( i n c l u d i ng de facto peg arrangements und er managed f l o a t i n g) (44) Pegged exchange rate w i th in ho r izon tal b ands (6)10 C raw l ing peg (4)6 C raw l ing band (5 )6 ,11 Append ix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy*1 1035 Mone ta ry Policy F r am ewo rk Mone ta ry aggregate target I n f l a t i on ta rge t ing f r am ew o rk Ano th er cu r r en cy as legal tender Ecuador* K i r iba ti Marshall I s l. Micronesia Pa lau Panama San Mar ino E x c h a n ge ra te a n c h or CFA f r a nc zone ECCU2 An t igua and Barbuda Dom in ica G renada St. K i t ts and Nev is St. Luc ia S t. V incent and the Grenadines WAEMl Ben in* B u r k i na Faso* Cote d ' lvo i r e* Gu inea- Bissau* Ma l i* N iger* Senegal* Togo CEMAC Cameroon* Cen tral A f r i c an R e p u b l i c* Chad* Congo, Rep. of Eq. Gu in ea Gabon* O ther E u ro area3, 4 Au s t r ia B e l g i um F i n l a nd F rance G e rm any Greece I r e l a nd I t a ly Lux embou rg N e t h e r l a n ds Portugal Spa in Fund - suppo r t ed or o ther m o n e t a ry p rog ram B e n i n* B u r k i na Faso* Cameroon* Cen t ral A f r i c an R e p u b l i c* Chad* Congo, Rep. of* Cote d ' l v o i r e* Ecuador* Gabon* Gu inea -B i s sau* M a l i* N ige r* Senegal* A rgen t ina* Bosn ia and Herzegov ina* Bu lg a r i a* D j ibou t i* E s ton ia* L i t h u a n i a* Jo rdan*6 La tv ia* Lesotho* Macedon ia, FYR*6 T r i n i d ad and Tobago*6 Ch ina, Peop le 's Rep. of"6 Aga in st a composite (13) Bangladesh BotswanaS F i ji Kuwa it Latvia* Ma l ta Morocco MyanmarS Samoa Seyche l les Solomon Is lands Tonga Vanua tu Argen t ina* Bosnia and Herzegovina* B runei Darussalam Bulgaria* People's Repub l ic of Ch ina — Hong Kong SAR D j ibou t i* Estonia* L i thuan ia* Aga inst a single c u r r e n cy (31) A ruba Bahamas, The5 Bahrain6, 7 Barbados Belize Bhu tan Cape Verde China, People's Rep. of*6 ComorosS Congo, Dem. Rep. of the El Salvador9 Eritrea I ran, I .R. of5, 6 Iraq Jordan*6 Lebanon6 Lesotho* Macedonia, FYR*6 Ma lays ia Ma ld ives6 N am i b ia Nepal Ne the r lands An t i l les Oman Qatar6, 7 Saudi Arabia6, ~* Swaziland Sy r ian Arab R epub l i c^ Trinidad and Tobago*6 Turkmen is tan Un i t ed Arab Emirates6, 7 W i t h in a cooperative a r rangement ERM II (1) Denmark O ther b a nd a r r ang em en ts (5) Cyp rus Egyp t* L iby an A rab J am a h i r i ya Sur inameS V ie tnam6 Bo l iv i a* Costa Rica Nicaragua* Z imbabwe* Israel* U rugu ay* Hondu ras* Venezue la Hung a ry Is rae l* B o l i v i a* N i c a r agu a* Z imbabwe* Hondu ra s* U r u g u a y* ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1036 Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate (33) Independently floating (47) Exchange rate anchor Monetary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Jamaica*6 Slovenia Tunisia Inflation targeting framework Czech Rep. Norway Australia Brazil 13 Canada Chile5 Colombia* Iceland Korea New Zealand Poland South Africa Sweden Thailand* United Kingdom The Gambia* Ghana* Guinea* Guyana* Mauritius6 Malawi* Mexico Mongolia* Peru* Philippines* Sao Tome' and Principe* Sierra Leone* Turkey* Yemen* Other Algeria3 Azerbaijan BelarusB, 5 Burundi3 Dominican Rep.3,5 Guatemala3 India3 Lao PDR3, 5 Paraguay3 Singapore Slovak Rep.3 Uzbekistan3, 5 Afghanistan, I.S. of5, 12 Japan3 Liberia3 SomaliaS, 12 Switzerland3 United States3 Fund-supported or other monetary program Cambodia5 Croatia Ethiopia Jamaica*6 Kazakhstan Kenya Kyrgyz Republic Mauritania Nigeria Pakistan Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Sri Lanka Sudan Ukraine Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep. of Albania Angola Armenia Colombia* The Gambia* Georgia Ghana* Guinea* Guyana* Haiti Indonesia Madagascar Malawi* Moldova Mongolia* Mozambique Papua New Guinea Peru* Philippines* Sao Tome' and Principe* Sierra Leone* Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand* Turkey* Uganda Yemen* Zambia Source: IMF staff reports. t Data is accurate as of March 31, 2001. The fo l low ing countries were reclassified subsequent to that date: the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. 1 An asterisk (*) indicates that a country adopts more than one nominal anchor in conducting monetary policy. It should be noted, however, that it would not be possible, for practical reasons, to infer from this table which nominal anchor plays the principal role in conducting monetary policy. 2 These countries have a currency board arrangement. 3 The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. 4 Un t il they are w i thdrawn in the first half of 2002, national currencies will retain their status as legal tender within their home territories. 5 Member maintained exchange arrangements invo lv ing more than one market. The arrangement shown is that maintained in the major market. 6 The indicated country has a de facto arrangement under a formally announced policy of managed or independent floating. In the case of Jordan, it indicates that the country has a de jure peg to SDR but a de facto peg to the U.S. dollar. In the case of Mauritius, the authorities have a de facto policy of floating independently, w i th only infrequent intervention by the central bank. 7 Exchange rates are determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to the SDR, w i th in margins of up to ±7.25%. However, because of the maintenance of a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, these margins are not always observed. 8 Comoros has the same arrangement with the French Treasury as the CFA Franc Zone countries do. 9 For El Salvador, the U.S. dollar is also legal tender; all financial system accounts are denominated in U.S. dollars. 10 The band w id th for these countries is: Cyprus (±2.25%), Denmark (±2.25%), Egypt (±1%), Libya (±77.5%), Suriname (±9.1%), and Vietnam (0.1% daily movement, one-sided). 11 The band for these countries is: Honduras (±7%), Hungary (±2.25%), Israel (±20%), Uruguay (±3%), and Venezuela (±7.5%). 12 There is no relevant information available for the country. 13 Brazil maintains a Fund-supported program. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 1037 Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks The classification system is based on the members' actual, de facto, regimes that may differ from their officially announced arrangements. The scheme ranks exchange rate regimes on the basis of the degree of flexibility of the arrangement. It distinguishes between the more rigid forms of pegged regimes (such as currency board arrangements); other conventional fixed peg regimes against a single currency or a basket of currencies; exchange rate bands around a fixed peg; crawling peg arrangements; and exchange rate bands around crawling pegs, in order to help assess the implications of the choice of exchange rate regime for the degree of independence of monetary policy. This includes a category to distinguish the exchange arrangements of those countries that have no separate legal tender. The system presents members' exchange rate regimes against alternative monetary policy frameworks with the intention of using both criteria as a way of providing greater transparency in the classification scheme and to illustrate that different forms of exchange rate regimes could be consistent with similar monetary frameworks. The categories are explained in the compilation guide. Members' exchange rate regimes are presented against alternative monetary policy frameworks in order to present the role of the exchange rate in broad economic policy and help identify potential sources of inconsistency in the monetary-exchange rate policy mix. The monetary policy frameworks listed are as follows. Exchange rate anchor The monetary authority stands ready to buy or sell foreign exchange at given quoted rates to maintain the exchange rate at its preannounced level or range (the exchange rate serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy). These regimes cover exchange rate regimes with no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, fixed pegs with or without bands, and crawling pegs with or without bands, where the rate of crawl is set in a forward-looking manner. Monetary aggregate anchor The monetary authority uses its instruments to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate (reserve money, M l, M2, etc.) and the targeted aggregate becomes the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation targeting framework Involves the public announcement of medium-term numerical targets for inflation with an institutional commitment by the monetary authority to achieve these targets. Additional key features include increased communication with the public and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary policymakers and increased accountability of the central bank for obtaining its inflation objectives. Monetary policy decisions are guided by the deviation of forecasts of future inflation from the announced inflation target, with the inflation forecast acting (implicitly or explicitly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. Fund-supported or other monetary program Involves implementation of monetary and exchange rate policy within the confines of a framework that establishes floors for international reserves and ceilings for net domestic assets of the central bank. As the ceiling on net domestic assets limits increases in reserve money through central bank operations, indicative targets for reserve money may be appended to this system. Other The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Append ix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status unde r IMF Articles of Agreement f\l IIL1C V 111 A r t i r lp V I II A r t ic le X I V Exchange rat e a r rangemen ts Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conven t ional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i t h in hor izon tal bands C raw l ing pe g C raw l ing band Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independen t ly f loa t in g Exchange rate s t ruc tu re Dual exchange rates M u l t i p le exchange rates A r rangemen ts fo r payments and receipts Bilateral payment s arrangements Payment arrears Controls o n paymen ts for invisible t ransac t ions an d cu r rent transfers Proceeds from exports and/or inv is ib le transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirement s Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements P rov i s ions spec i f i c to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors <L> C CO 8 -o 1 o 2 ^ w. B ~ £ ffl _Q S «= -0 1« .i . ! § - C 1£ C — ^ ^ 3 '*^ 'c •si £ § '5 a .1 s § £ £ <w ) .s & g> £ gp i , H 'i , < , < , < , < , < , < , < 1- + + • + + + + + 34 39 8 44 0 + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + h (- h 5 4 5 h h h + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + 33 48 h + + + + + + + • • 13 6 l- + + + + + + + 60 59 • + + + + + + — • • • \- + 98 • • • + + + + + + + h 107 82 • • • • — + + + + + + + • • h 1 90 • • • * 1 ZO — • • + + + 1 1 1 — • • • + + + + + + + • h + + + + h 102 - + + 84 — • • • • + + + • • i- + + h + + + + + + + i no • • 1 U7 • V h + + + + + + + m* • * — 9 9 9 + + + + + + + h 97 - + • • • + \- + + + + + 1 4u • • • • h + + + + + + + 57 • • H + + + + + + + h + + + + + + + 93 h + + + + + + + h + + + + + + + | 84 , - , • , , • , - , •, 1 1 c '>1 a ^ c •£ ~° •5 :§> S3 c • * - > • < -> k- Cd u. OO o c« V) D . C JC C " t- 3 N c d c d c 3 c -S S „ £ S _g S -S ^ | "I ^ "S 2 1 ^ c I | -S JS 3 C 3 J3 — 0 h rv N .S i-3 >** — C 3 — c/5 J O W W J C OO c — 3 + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • 4 0 0 A + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + T + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H • — • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + — • H • • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H • • • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • • • H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • • • + + + + + + + + ^+ + + + + + + • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • • • • — • • 1 + + + + H H H + -f- + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + ^ ^ • • • • • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • • • • + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + H H + + +— I- + + + + + + + + + + + • • • • • + + + + + + + + + + H + + + + + H + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + • • — • -{ For key and footnotes, see page 1044 1038 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 1039 O V 2 *s « I I ! „ Is ii "^ e * < ftj 3 .y cx .S So 1 .2 5 * •§ £ S £ 5 I rS «, C 3 £ 9^ f fr « '§ 8. S & 2 h it i hiii. fiiliimiuiU ri! o E c 3 3 3 e 3 e 3 e 3 5 s i > . c . c . c o o o o o o < o c > > N 4> :^ P o o ao — c r ' C t o 'S fflfflOQfflttfflUUUUCJUUUffiUUUUUUUUUQ^QQWWWWWWW • • • •• •• • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • •• •• • • • • A A A_ji A A 0 * A • • • • _Y + + + + + * « # • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • _• • • • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • — • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • • • • • • — • — • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • » • • _ • • _ _ • • • — • • • • • • « « • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • _ _ _ • • • • • _ _ • •« « * _ * * ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on a i b m a G I? E UN e h T >> •§> C0 Ss i 1 O O u a s s i B - a e n i u G , <4M O 2i" 1i ? >* B 3 1 1 s a r u d n o H ;zJ >* 3 e e A e e 0 A T e e + + Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Payment arrears - • • Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments r> n Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits _. . . .. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Liquidation of direct investment Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors For key and footnotes, see page 1044. 1040 - - - - - • = - - 0 0 - - - - - - - ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 d « * 0 s *s 2 ^0 . 5 :s 1 ! .2 ^ g> ^ -: i ** ° & * o 8 * $ ™. • • • • • • • e A • + T V + +T + + +T TT + • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • • • • • _ _ • • • • • • — • — — • g _ - _ « | « «_ _ • __ • « « _ « 1041 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on i3 < d n a l a e Z Z £ w e N I a u g a r a c i N 1 2 •8 & Z & 2 f 03 1 3 2 CO V_c O §£ x , •a00 1 3 § s e n p p i i l i h P n o i t a r e d e F n a i s s u R s i v e N d n a s t t i K . t S 1 .2 Jj <55 1 1 > 55 e A + + + 0 0 0 0 + - - - Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payment arrears Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: i^upiiui marK€i securn es . r< 11 Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits ... .. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment . .. Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors For key and footnotes, see page 1044. 1042 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 i 1 i 1 1 II | i ! I £ 1 | 1 1 i • | | 1 ? ' ' 1 1 i ^ III C / D C / 5 C / 5 C / 3 C / 3 C / 3 C / 3 C / 5 C O C / 3 C O C O C / 2 C / 5 C / 3 C / 5 C / 5 C / 5 C / 5 C / 5 C / 3 H H H H H H H H H P P 3 H . ) HJ • • • | • • • • A 0 A Y + Y T 1 + 1+ T+ + + • • • • • ! | • • • • •• 1 • • • •• •• •• • • • | 1 • • • • • •— •• ' ! • •• • • •• • •_ •• • • • •• • • • • • •• • • •• • •• •• • •• • • •• • •• •• • • • • • • •• • — • • • • •• • — • • • • • •• • • • • • •• • • I • • •• • •— • • • — • • •• — • • •• • •• • i043 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution <+-,o 1 1 sf'> CQ1 <*-o t> *o CQ d.& vS 4> § f o c i l b u p e R , n e m e Y m a n t e i V x 03 1•£2 1 D u t a u n a V T * e Key and Footnotes 2 w b a b m i Z • • • 0 A 0 + T •> Indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. Indicates that data were not available at time of publication. Indicates that the specific practice is not regulated. Indicates that member uses the currency of another member as legal tender. Indicates that member participates in the ECCU. Indicates that the arrangement is pegged to the French franc. Indicates that member participates in the euro area. Indicates that flexibility is limited to a single currency. Indicates that the composite is a basket of other currencies. Indicates that the country participates in the ERMII of the EMS. Indicates other band arrangements. 1 Usually December 31,2000. 2 The listing includes Hong Kong SAR, Aruba, and the Nether- lands Antilles. _ _ - - - - - - _ - - - - - Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors 1044 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • APPENDIX III: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations 1045 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1046 APPENDIX III Use of foreign exchange among residents Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1047 Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1048 APPENDIX III Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1049 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1050 APPENDIX III Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1051 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatmen t of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1052 APPENDIX III Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1053 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 