 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 199O ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1990 International Monetary Fund Price: US$39.50 (US$20.00 to university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979 — Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual repoirt on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.7'Sl 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-148-X ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10, 1990 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1990, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, /si Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director iii ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji CONTENTS Page vii 1 Page 3 Finland 6 France 10 Gabon 12 Gambia, The 14 Germany, Federal Republic of 19 Ghana 21 Greece 26 Grenada 29 Guatemala 33 Guinea 35 Guinea-Bissau 41 Guyana 45 Haiti 50 Honduras 52 Hong Kong 56 Hungary 57 Iceland 59 India 61 Indonesia 69 Iran, Islamic Republic of 73 Iraq 76 Ireland 80 Israel 83 Italy 85 Jamaica 89 Japan 93 Jordan 97 Kampuchea, Democratic* 105 Kenya Ill Kiribati 113 Korea 116 Kuwait 119 Lao People's Democratic Republic 123 Lebanon 126 Lesotho 129 Liberia 130 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 132 Madagascar 135 Malawi 140 Malaysia 147 Page 160 164 171 175 177 180 184 187 190 192 195 197 200 202 206 208 215 218 230 236 240 243 247 251 255 259 263 267 271 272 276 279 281 283 285 287 290 294 297 151 154 157 *The IMf hag nQt received from the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1989. V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Page 301 303 306 309 312 315 320 326 329 333 337 340 342 345 348 352 356 360 362 370 372 375 378 385 393 402 407 409 413 416 418 420 422 424 426 430 432 435 437 Page Somalia 439 South Africa 442 Spain 447 Sri Lanka 451 Sudan 457 Suriname 461 Swaziland 465 Sweden 467 Switzerland 470 Syrian Arab Republic 472 Tanzania 477 Thailand 480 Togo 485 Tonga 490 Trinidad and Tobago 491 Tunisia 496 Turkey 503 Uganda 509 United Arab Emirates 513 United Kingdom 515 United States 518 Uruguay 528 Vanuatu 530 Venezuela 532 Viet Nam 537 Western Samoa 541 Yemen Arab Republic 543 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of . .. 545 Yugoslavia 548 Zaire 553 Zambia 558 Zimbabwe 562 Appendix. EEC: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1989 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations 575 582 L 567 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Systems Surveillance Division of the Exchange and Trade Relations Department. It draws on the specialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff mem- bers of the IMF's five Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Ariiba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The exchange and trade sys- tem of one other country, which is not a member of the IMF, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1989, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1990. A standardized approach has been followed, un- der which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chron- ologically the more significant changes during 1989. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and ju- risdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as im- port licensing, advance deposit requirements, im- port surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1989 includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in- ternational transactions but are not necessarily re- flected in the body of the country descriptions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have fur- nished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(0). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 29 or 31, 1989, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. Where a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, and, in some in- stances, External Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements im- posed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general li- cense" indicates arrangements whereby certain im- ports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely, or restrictively, according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or ex- change dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries, there is a requirement that such ex- change or part thereof be sold in a free market. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital move- ments are described. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usu- ally dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the princi- pal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate that is applied to (1) transactions of the Central Government; (2) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, below); and (3) all transac- tions in accounting units specified under bilateral payments agreements. The official exchange rate is defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 29,1989, the official exchange rate was Af 50.00 = US$1 buying and Af 51.20 = US$1 selling, respectively. Aside from the official rate, there are several mixed rates that apply to certain export transac- tions, a market-determined rate that prevails in the money bazaar, and a rate set by commercial banks that is supposedly linked to the money-bazaar rates. On December 29,1989, the commercial bank rate was Af 399.00 = US$1 buying and Af 400.00 = US$1 selling, respectively. There are surrender requirements for a number of exports, and mixed rates result from the rates of surrender requirements, as follows. For medical roots, other medical products, raisins, and skins (except karakul), exporters are required to sur- render 10 percent of the foreign exchange proceeds to Da Afghanistan Bank. For patl wool, licorice, and other wools, the surrender requirements are 15 per- cent, 20 percent, and 30 percent, respectively. For all these products one half of the amount to be surrendered is converted at the rate of Af 51.2 = US$1, and one half at the rate of Af 100.0 = US$1, or at an average rate of Af 75.0 = US$1. The remaining foreign exchange proceeds may be used for imports, converted at the money-bazaar rate, deposited in an account with a commercial bank, or retained in an account abroad for a period not to exceed 8,10, or 12 months, depending on the country. For karakul skins, exporters are required to surrender 100 per- cent of the proceeds, of which 45 percent is con- verted at the official rate, and 55 percent, at the commercial bank rate. Cotton may be exported only by four approved state enterprises, which pay the producer Af 158.30 per kilogram. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of rela- tively large companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, except for cotton, which can only be exported by four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all coun- tries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are pro- hibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special per- mission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program is drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce, covering imports of both the public and private sec- tors. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made in the light of changing circumstances. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Demo- cratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 AFGHANISTAN Commerce, is indicative. Importation of petroleum products and sugar is a state monopoly. The present customs tariff structure was promul- gated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates, ad val- orem and specific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 percent and 35 per- cent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the govern- ment budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks at the time of opening letters of credit; the deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, range from 25 percent for essentials to up to 45 percent for other imports. Payments for Invisibles Tourists are permitted to take out up to US$2,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies, and traders can take out up to US$15,000 for imports of goods. When foreign travel is for other purposes, the permissible amounts are determined by the ap- propriate authorities in each case. Permission from the central bank or one of the commercial banks is necessary for taking out foreign currency. Exchange for private travel, as for other private purposes, has to be acquired in the bazaar market. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to li- cense, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and mu- seum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement coun- tries, must be received in convertible currencies. Receipts from exports of natural gas, karakul, cot- ton, and wool are subject to 100 percent surrender requirements. Receipts from medical roots, other medical products, raisins, skins (except karakul), and licorice are subject to surrender requirements ranging from 10-30 percent. Export proceeds from these products are converted at various exchange rates (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). In the case of trade under bilateral payments agreements, export proceeds may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the basic official rate of Af 51 = US$1, with the exception of proceeds from cotton exports by ginning and pressing enterprises of the Ministry of Light Industries and Food, which are converted at the rate of Af 50 = US$1. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible curren- cies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 8, 10, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the period the funds are held abroad, the exporter may use them for import of any goods other than those included in the list of pro- hibited goods. Alternatively, the exporter may sell the proceeds to an importer who may use them to purchase abroad from a list of 33 specified items. At the end of the periods indicated above, the foreign exchange holdings abroad have to be repatriated to a non-interest-bearing foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan. After this transfer, the retained proceeds may be used by the exporter or sold to another importer only for importation from the list of 33 specified commodities referred to above. In all cases, sale of retained proceeds to other importers takes place at the commercial bank rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors and 40 percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign experts and advisors paid from grants under aid programs must be con- verted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a mini- mum of the equivalent of US$26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in Afghan banknotes and Af 50 in Afghan coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN 5 Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private In- vestment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enter- prises established under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign par- ticipation not exceeding 49 percent. It also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Invest- ment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell do- mestically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold bullion and silver, as well as of jewelry, require permission of Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial ex- ports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Central Bank of Al- geria partly on the basis of a fixed relationship be- tween the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On De- cember 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 8.0249 = US$1 and DA 8.0399 = US$1, respectively. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for doc- umentary credits outside Algeria. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the ex- change legislation and regulations and is responsi- ble for their application by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Foreign trade is carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation (budget-devises) system administered by the Ministry of Economy. Investment of foreign cap- ital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria must be ap- proved by the National Investment Committee in order to benefit from the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Al- gerian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Ac- counts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Balances in such ac- counts opened before January 1, 1975 by nonresi- dent physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those un- der supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for payments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear inter- est and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian na- tionality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco, and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 7 the country of origin. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with an amount equivalent to the hold- ings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the per- son concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior ap- proval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require indi- vidual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne-devises). 4. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by physical or juridical Algerian nationals resident in Algeria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that have been declared at the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to-bank book transfers. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be deb- ited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign cur- rencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. In accordance with Law No. 88/29 of July 19,1988, the Government has a monopoly over foreign trade, which it exercises by granting conces- sions to public economic enterprises, public agen- cies, and interest groups. In principle, all import operations are carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation, which the Govern- ment grants to (1) public economic enterprises for their own requirements, (2) foreign trade offices for resale, and (3) the National Chamber of Commerce for the private sector as a whole to cover its needs. Nevertheless, in certain cases, imports may be au- thorized through the issuance of import authoriza- tions to public and private enterprises that enable them to import goods and services not covered by the foreign exchange allocation. The foreign ex- change allocation is formulated on a multiyear basis, except for 1989, as an integral part of the enter- prise's medium-term plan. It includes (1) revenue (e.g., export receipts and external loan receipts), (2) expenditure (import payments and repayment of external loans), and (3) short- and medium-term borrowing ceilings. In priority cases, the Government may grant an enterprise the right to exchange more foreign cur- rency than it takes in to cover necessary operations. For certain products (cereals, semolina, and coffee), the exchange right is expressed in terms of the quantities needed for consumption, while for other products it is in terms of dinar value (spare parts, Pharmaceuticals, etc.). An enterprise that holds a foreign exchange allocation may use it freely for its current operations and is subject to no further a priori administrative and financial control for- malities. Financing arrangements for all imports fi- nanced with credits of more than 90 days must be approved in advance by the Committee for External Borrowing, chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank of Algeria. In general, imports valued at less than US$2 million must be paid in cash or with credits of up to 90 days, unless covered by an exist- ing bilateral line of credit. Imports of capital goods valued at less than US$2 million and financed with concessional medium-term bilateral credits do not require this Committee's advance approval. Special regulations apply to unremunerated im- ports of capital goods, automotive vehicles, and noncommercial goods that have an f.o.b. value of more than DA 10,000. These imports are not subject to any prior formalities or to any limits, regardless of the value or number of operations concerned. The list of items that may be imported in this manner is prepared periodically by ministerial decree. Import supporting documents must be presented to the bank through which the payments relating to the transaction must be paid. Except as otherwise indicated by the exchange control authorities (Min- istry of Economy or Central Bank), down payments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured by Al- gerian insurers. When a public agency, public en- terprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 ALGERIA documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Economy. Public enterprises may use foreign exchange allocations freely for payments for specified invisibles, includ- ing transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of family remittances is sus- pended. The premiums for insurance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian residents must be paid in Algeria. Public and private sector national exporters may open EDAC accounts (i.e., exporters' Convertible Dinar Accounts) denominated in con- vertible dinars, which can be credited with up to 10 percent of repatriated proceeds and be used for any of the following payments: business travel al- lowances; air travel expenditures; salaries and ex- penditures of foreign technicians; imports of essen- tial spare parts and capital goods amounting to less than DA 200,000; representation costs at overseas trade fairs and exhibitions; and legal and admin- istrative expenses. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs, for public enterprises and agencies, or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 50 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria and 70 percent for persons whose families are abroad. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employ- ment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 35 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria and 55 per- cent for persons whose families are abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in Octo- ber 1988. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Al- geria may, when returning abroad, re-export for- eign exchange freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an al- location in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allowance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resi- dent travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. However, on their arrival in Algeria, foreign nonresidents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported for- eign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are pro- hibited regardless of destination. All other export operations are carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation system. Non- hydrocarbon exports may take advantage of certain incentive measures granted by the Government, including, for example, (1) exemption from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat- rate levy on the wage bill, and (2) export promotion assistance (AMPEX). Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be registered prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after they are collected. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price for each barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, in- cluding those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Nonresi- dent Algerian nationals must convert at least the equivalent of DA 700 a person upon entering Al- geria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire cap- ital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents must be approved in advance by the Minister of Economy or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the indus- trial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guaran- tee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds from invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be per- mitted up to 15 percent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geo- graphic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guaran- tee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvested profits, and the repatriation of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16,1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Pre- cieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and dis- tribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR under import licenses issued by the Minis- try of Economy and the Central Bank. Changes During 1989 Prescription of Currency June 1. Clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars were opened in the central banks of Algeria and Morocco to facilitate settlements between the two countries. Imports and Import Payments November 5. New procedures requiring prior ap- proval of financing arrangements for all imports financed with credits of more than 90 days were introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the Kwanza (plural kwanzas). Since May 1976, the kwanza has been pegged to the U.S. doUar at Kz 29.918 = US$1. The National Bank of Angola applies a margin of 1 per- cent to both its buying and selling transactions and has the sole authority to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Exchange rates for 17 other curren- cies2 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies concerned on the New York, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, and Zurich mar- kets on the basis of a formula that projects exchange rate changes in the following week. This formula takes into account the relative weight of the cur- rency in the foreign trade of Angola and the changes in cross rates during the preceding week. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depending on the currency. The exchange rates are published each Friday in the Bulletin of the National Bank of Angola and are valid for seven days beginning the following Monday. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is prepared annually by the Ministry of Planning with the assistance of the National Bank of Angola, the Ministry of Fi- nance, and the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions must be effected through the National Bank of Angola, which serves both as the central bank and the authorized bank for foreign transactions. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank of Angola prescribes the cur- rencies to be used for imports, depending upon the country with which transactions are to be carried out. The currencies are usually the currency of the Angola became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 19, 1989. 2Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and ECUs. exporting country or the U.S. dollar. Angola has a bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic. Bilateral settlement arrange- ments, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil and Spain. These arrangements utilize single accounts through which monthly balances can be used without re- striction for transactions with third countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the prior authorization of the National Bank of Angola, resident enterprises in Angola may maintain foreign exchange accounts. Transactions through these accounts are subject to the prior au- thorization of the National Bank of Angola. Nonresi- dents may maintain accounts in convertible kwanzas, provided that the funds are transferred from abroad. Ex-residents may also hold accounts in kwanzas, but they may withdraw funds on these accounts only to cover expenses during their stay in Angola. Nonresidents with an established business in Angola may hold foreign exchange accounts sub- ject to the prior authorization of the National Bank of Angola. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports are subject to licensing, with limits established under the import plan and subject to the availability of foreign exchange. Licenses may be obtained only by registered enterprises of proven technical, commercial, and financial capacity. Li- censes are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation, and are restricted to imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To obtain a li- cense, enterprises must present to the sectoral min- istries and the Ministry of Commerce offers of three foreign suppliers. The approved offer may be con- sidered for an import license application, which in turn must be approved by the same ministries. Im- port licenses specify the importer, the supplier, the intermediary, the product by its Brussels nomencla- ture classification, volume, and unit price, the trans- port and insurance companies, the costs, the method of payments, and the currency of payment. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 11 is levied. Import licenses are also required for statis- tical purposes even if foreign exchange is not re- quested. Imports of capital goods must be financed partly with medium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domes- tic air and sea transportation, and imports not in- sured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted only in certain cases. A maximum daily allowance of US$200 is granted for approved busi- ness travel up to 30 days. Up to the equivalent of Kz 50,000 may be granted for purposes of medical treatment abroad. Allowances in excess of these limits are granted on a case-by-case basis. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional Kz 8,000 a year may be allotted. An allowance for tourism purposes of US$500-US$1,000 may be made available in ex- ceptional cases, but it is granted at most once every four years. Nonresidents may export foreign ex- change up to the amount declared on entry after deducting the equivalent of Kz 500 for each day spent in the country. The exportation and importa- tion of domestic currency are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited as are exports of certain goods.3 Re-exports of goods other than equipment and personal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions also apply to the export of products that are in short domestic supply. COF- ANGOL (a state enterprise) holds an export monop- 3Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, os- trich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork meat, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and oil. oly on coffee. All other exports are subject to licens- ing. Licenses may be obtained by registered enter- prises, and proceeds must be collected within 90 days of shipment and surrendered to the National Bank of Angola. Certain foreign enterprises (cur- rently oil and diamonds) are required to surrender only a proportion of export receipts and to retain the remainder to cover production costs. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to the approval of the National Bank of Angola. The execution of contracts is supervised by the sectoral ministries. All proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank of Angola within 60 days of receipt. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of July 1988 prohibits foreign investment in strategic sectors4 and direct investments abroad by residents. Direct foreign investments are encouraged in the oil sec- tor. Dividends and capital may be repatriated upon liquidation, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inheritances, dowries, savings from wages and sal- aries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are not permitted. Gold Imports and exports of gold are the monopoly of the National Bank of Angola. Residents are permit- ted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 4Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, com- munications, and transport infrastructure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On De- cember 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 percent; the minimum levy is EC$1 a transaction.2 There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export li- censes are required for a range of products, par- ticularly thbse subject to export duties. Import li- censes are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)3 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South Af- rican currency are not permitted. 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Domin- ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The levy was abolished, effective April 1, 1990. 3The CARICQM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms in tourist-oriented industries or in export trades where most receipts are in foreign currency and a large portion of inputs are imported or are financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be cred- ited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are re- quired to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other commodities require individual li- censes, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Authority is delegated to commercial banks to approve applica- tion forms for import licenses after confirming sight of documents. The approved forms must be submit- ted to the Ministry of Finance on a weekly basis. Imports that are exempt from import duties in- clude basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw ma- terials are granted on a case-by-case basis and gen- erally under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Upon presentation of supporting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with per- mission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic al- lowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. Official authorization is required for 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 13 amounts exceeding these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Commission of In- land Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually ex- empted from the foreign exchange levy. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charity purposes, are usu- ally granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Austral (plural Australes). Since December 20,1989, a unified float- ing exchange rate system has been in operation. On December 29,1989, the middle rate of the austral in terms of the U.S. dollar was A 1,950 = US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other curren- cies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange opera- tions are permitted under a new regime introduced on December 20, 1989. Both transactions must be effected for a period of at least seven days, but advance settlement may be authorized during this seven-day period. The currency of the transactions and the rates may be freely negotiated. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose. These authorized entities include banks, ex- change agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Pursuant to the Presidential and Energy Integration Protocol signed with the Government of Bolivia on December 13,1989 for the purpose of making joint use of the energy resources of both countries, a fixed proportion of Argentina's 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports is made into a non-interest-bearing account at the Central Bank of Argentina, and it is used solely for pur- chases of goods and services of Argentine origin for the construction of the Rio Grande-Campo Santa Cruz gas pipeline, the gas treatment plant at Naran- jillos, and the Palmar Grande-Camiri highway. Ar- gentina maintains reciprocal credit arrangements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. by means of special accounts in each cen- tral bank through which transactions are settled. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. The Central Bank of Ar- gentina maintains a special account with Romania under which payments for imports of equipment and capital goods from Romania are offset with receipts from exports of certain products from Argentina. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in australes and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresi- dent, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers be- tween accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies, except as otherwise specified in the reg- ulations on prescription of currency. Settlement of payments for imports may be freely effected by au- thorized financial entities, and, since December 20, 1989, they have been carried out at the rate in the free exchange market, with no minimum financing requirement period. Imports and related payments by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, im- ports are subject to a stamp duty of 0.6 percent and to selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 22 percent. Most public and private sector imports require a "Sworn Declaration of Need to Import" issued by the National Import Directorate. Certain public en- terprises are also permitted to import under foreign treaties without the issuance of an import license. Import license requests submitted by the private sector to the Industry and Foreign Trade Secretariat 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 15 are issued only after the importer has placed with a bank a deposit in australes for 3 percent of the f .o.b. value declared on the "Sworn Declaration of Need to Import." The deposits are blocked for a period of time defined in the central bank regulations; they are expressed in U.S. dollars. Consumer goods whose domestic production is sufficient and that are covered under List I of Decree No. 4070/84 may not, in principle, be imported. (No goods, however, were placed on List I in 1989.) The prohibition on the importation of goods on List I, when it applies, does not apply to temporary im- ports, goods included in the border traffic scheme, or samples and prototypes. The Secretary of Indus- try and Foreign Trade is empowered to grant import licenses for goods on List I when the item is consid- ered necessary for scientific or technical reasons, or in light of the quantity or quality of domestic production. Imports of goods on List II of Decree No. 4070/84 require the prior approval of the Secretary of Indus- try and Foreign Trade, who issues import licenses in consultation with an Honorary Import Advisory Committee on which both government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organiza- tions are represented. The goods on List II include a range of consumer goods and industrial inputs for which close substitutes are available in Argentina. Goods imported under concessions granted by any instrument of the LAIA agreement are exempt from the prohibition applicable to goods on List I and the review requirement for goods on List II. Import licenses are issued automatically for goods covered under the Argentine-Uruguayan Economic Cooper- ation Agreement. Import licenses for certain raw materials and inputs for the pharmaceutical indus- try and for medical and health services (List III of Decree No. 4070/84) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action, and licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces require the prior ap- proval of the Ministries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses are granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing provisions. The number of goods included on List II declined sharply during 1989; out of an approxi- mate total of 10,500 tariff items, only 322 remained on this list by the end of 1989, and a further reduc- tion is expected in the future. The actual import value (f .o.b.) must be no more than 10 percent of the stated value of the sworn declaration submitted in application for an import license. Countertrade is permitted for firms engaging in the exportation of promoted exports. In such cases, import payments can take the form of the exporta- tion of promoted goods. Payments for Invisibles Since December 20, 1989, the sale of foreign ex- change at the free exchange rate has been permitted for most invisible payments. Authorized entities may carry out most types of transactions without the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export prices (reference prices) are es- tablished for many agricultural and livestock ex- ports as a basis for the payment of duties. A number of traditional exports (soybeans, beef, and processed hides) are subject to additional ex- port taxes. Certain nontraditional exports are eligi- ble for rebates of estimated indirect taxes paid in the process of production. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for additional rebates rang- ing from 7 percent to 12 percent. Many exports, particularly nontraditional ex- ports, are eligible for various other export incentives although a number of schemes have been sus- pended since July 1989. The Central Bank has estab- lished a number of special prefinancing and financ- ing regimes to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services; this scheme has also been suspended since July 10,1989. As regards the transactions covered under the General System of Financing for Promoted Exports, extraordinary risk credit insurance cover is required, and it is granted by the Argentine Export Credit Insurance Com- pany Inc. (CASCE) for the account of the National Government. These transactions must carry the guarantee of a reputable foreign bank or be covered by an export credit insurance on commercial risks, which is issued by the CASCE. Certain products, mostly nontraditional exports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Various export incentives are provided for pro- moted exports in accordance with the Export Pro- motion Laws of December 16,1984. These include: (1) a deduction from taxable profits, up to 10 percent of the value of certain exports; (2) the creation of export consortia and cooperatives and the granting of an incentive equal to 4 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports over a period of five years; (3) the estab- lishment of international trading companies; (4) permission for firms to engage in countertrade when marketing promoted exports; (5) a tax draw- back scheme under which rebates would be allowed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ARGENTINA for taxes of imported inputs and other taxes; (6) the elimination of the 0.5 percent stamp tax for exports from the Federal Capital Area; and (7) the funding of an Export Promotion Fund to finance participa- tion in trade fairs and exhibitions. All these incen- tives have, however, been formally suspended since September 15,1989 under the Economic Emergency Law. A general export tax at the rates of 30 percent and 20 percent is levied on agricultural and industrial products, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts obtained from private sector invisible transactions need not be surren- dered to the Central Bank, but may be sold in the exchange market. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes and coins, as well as gold coins and "good-delivery" gold bars. Capital Since December 20,1989, proceeds from all loans have been transacted in the free exchange market. There are no conditions, on maturity dates or inter- est rates, for financial loans transacted through the free market. Principal and interest payments for loans received after November 28,1984 may only be effected directly through authorized entities on the maturity date without prior central bank authoriza- tion. All amortization payments for loans received not subject to Regulation A 558 and not related to import operations carried out in accordance with the minimum conditions specified for such pay- ments may be settled through the subscription of U.S. dollar bonds of the Central Bank of the Argen- tine Republic, payable in 15 semiannual install- ments, with a grace period of three years. Since June 1981, borrowers for loans in foreign currency wishing to obtain an exchange rate guar- antee or a swap agreement from the Central Bank were required, as an essential condition, to obtain an extension of the original maturities for the terms as necessary. All loans outstanding and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of De- cember 4,1982 and all loans for which the domestic borrower has obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank and which fell due through the end of 1985 have been extended under mini- mum terms established by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements that fell due in 1985 were either to be rescheduled by means of the issu- ance of U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA Notes) with a ten-year matu- rity, or by a direct refinancing between debtor and creditor for up to five years, followed by the issu- ance of a BCRA Note for the remainder of the ten- year period. Financial loans that benefited from any of the above-mentioned coverages were resched- uled as of October 1987 by means of the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated obligations with a 19-year maturity and a 7-year grace period. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their sub- sidiaries requires authorization from the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency sight or term deposits. Foreign borrowing by the public sec- tor is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of Octo- ber 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 24, 1975. Banks may accept sight and term deposits in foreign currency. The foreign investment regime is governed by the Foreign Investment Law (Codified Text 1980), which incorporates the amendments made under Law No. 22208 to Law No. 21382. The Economic Emergency Law, promulgated on September 15, 1989, incorporates in its Chapter VI the last amend- ments made to the Foreign Investment Law, which is currently regulated by Decree No. 1225/89 dated November 9, 1989. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currencies in the form of new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine cur- rency belonging to foreign investors (provided that they are legally transferable abroad); capitalization of external credits received in freely convertible for- eign currencies; intangible assets; and any other form acceptable to the implementing authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. The requirement that the investment of foreign capital in the country be approved in advance by the National Executive Power or the Implementing Au- thority was eliminated under Article 15 of the Eco- nomic Emergency Law, and equal treatment is ac- corded to domestic and foreign capital to be invested in productive activities in the country. For- eign investments registered before the effective date of Decree No. 1225/89 are automatically regis- tered in the Register of Foreign Investments. For- eign investments in existence before the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 21382, Codified Text 1980) entered into force are governed by the provi- sions of the same law. Since September 1984, the Central Bank has en- tertained applications for the capitalization into for- eign direct investment of principal falling due with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 17 an exchange rate guarantee. Many of these applica- tions were approved until the suspension of the arrangement in 1986. In addition, during the same period, certain applications for the capitalization into foreign direct investments of swap transactions that fell due were also approved, although no for- mal arrangement existed for such transactions. In October 1987, a debt-conversion scheme was announced that would allow investments to be fi- nanced through conversion of external loan claims into domestic currency at the free foreign exchange market rate. The value of the loan claims would be determined through an auction system. The scheme came into effect on January 1,1988, and the first auction was held in January 1988. Profits on investments under this scheme may not be remitted for at least four years, and capital may not be re- patriated for ten years. No auctions under this scheme were held during 1989. Other registered foreign investments may gener- ally be repatriated three years after entry into Ar- gentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. Profits on registered foreign capital are no longer subject to a special tax on after-tax profit even if they exceed 12 percent of registered capital on an annual basis. Investors recorded under the regime of Law No. 21382 (Codified Text 1980), and those to be registered according to the provisions of Decree No. 1225/89, are exempted, in general, by virtue of Article 14 of Decree No. 1225/89 from payments of the tax as provided under Article 16 of Law No. 21382 (Codified Text 1980) for six years after the effective date of the Decree. Foreign enterprises may obtain domestic credit with the same rights and under the same conditions as domestic enterprises. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institu- tions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good-delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage opera- tions in gold coins or good-delivery gold with their clients, against foreign bank notes. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement February 6. The dual exchange market system was replaced by a new system consisting of three ex- change rates: (1) an official, fixed commercial rate, to be applied to agricultural and some industrial exports; (2) a special rate, to be set at a level 25 per- cent more depreciated than the commercial rate, to be applied to the remainder of exports and most imports; and (3) a free market rate, to be applied to service and capital-related transactions. On Feb- ruary 21, some exports were transferred to the free market. April 4. The two official rates (the fixed commer- cial rate and the special rate) were merged and made applicable to 50 percent of all trade transac- tions; the remaining 50 percent and all other trans- actions would take place through the free exchange market. April 17. All foreign exchange transactions were transferred to the free exchange market, and $n additional tax on all exports was introduced. May 2. The additional tax on all exports was fixed at 20 percent. May 30. The free market exchange rate system was replaced by a fixed exchange rate system, and exchange controls were reintroduced. The rate was initially set at A175 per US$1, but subsequently adjusted in stages to A 300 in early July. The addi- tional tax on exports of agricultural products was raised to 30 percent. July 10. The exchange rate was adjusted to A 650 per US$1. December 12. The official exchange rate was ad- justed to A 1,000 per US$1, and a free exchange rate for financial transactions was introduced. December 20. The foreign exchange market was unified under a freely floating system. At the end of the month, the exchange rate depreciated to about A 2,000 per US$1. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations were permitted. Prescription of Currency December 13. The Presidential and Energy Integra- tion Protocol was signed with the Government of Bolivia for the purpose of making joint use of the energy resources of both countries. Under the Pro- tocol, a fixed proportion of Argentina's payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports would be made into a non-interest-bearing account at the Central Bank of Argentina, and it would be used solely for pur- chases of goods and services of Argentine origin for the construction of the Rio Grande-Campo Santa ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ARGENTINA Cruz gas pipeline, the gas treatment plant at Naran- jillos, and the Palmar Grande-Camiri highway. Imports and Import Payments February 6. Payments for most imports were trans- ferred from the free exchange market to the special exchange rate to be fixed by the Central Bank, ini- tially at a level 25 percent more depreciated than the fixed commercial rate. April 17. Payments for imports were transferred to the free exchange market following the abolition of the official exchange market. May 30. Controls on import payments were intro- duced, leading to arrears on some payments to sup- pliers. Payments for imports were subject to the new fixed official exchange rate. June 21. Payments abroad exceeding US$1,000 were suspended. July 10. Access to official foreign exchange for import payments and interest on private debt was fully restored. October 10. Customs tariff rates were reduced, as follows: basic rates in excess of 40 percent were reduced to 40 percent; rates between 14 and 40 per- cent were reduced by 7 percentage points; and a tax of 5 percent was introduced on goods that had not been subject to any import tax. October 31. Quantitative restrictions on a range of goods, including some motor vehicles, beer, and wine, were removed, reducing the production coverage of such restrictions to less than 15 percent. Subsequently, this coverage was further reduced to 9 percent, and the restrictions on many textile items were eliminated. December 18. Payments for imports were subject to the unified free exchange market, with no mini- mum financing requirement period. Payments for Invisibles December 20. Invisible payments were permitted through the free exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds May 2. A general export tax of 20 percent was established. May 30. The general export tax rate was raised to 30 percent for agricultural goods and 20 percent for industrial goods. July 10. The system of export prefinancing and a number of export promotion schemes were suspended. September 15. Various export incentives provided under the Export Promotion Law of 1984 were sus- pended under the Economic Emergency Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 = US$1. The Central Bank van Aruba (the Central Bank) deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On December 29,1989, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. (The official selling rate for drafts was Af. 1.78 = US$1.) Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar on the inter- national exchange markets. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident com- panies with a nonresident status for foreign ex- change control purposes are exempted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency, except in the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through local banks and through banks abroad must be re- ported to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency, but they are not permitted, in principle, to hold accounts in Aruban florins. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts The opening and maintaining of foreign bank accounts by residents is subject to a central bank license. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports of certain products, for which locally pro- duced substitutes exist (such as corn oil, car bat- teries, eggs, beer, nonalcoholic drinks, ice cream, mattresses, toilet paper, and soap), are subject to quotas or import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Central Bank. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted by the Central Bank upon application. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The export of Aruban bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, credited to a foreign currency ac- count with a local bank, or credited with a foreign bank with the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. 1On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate non- metropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units. Capital The following transactions require a central bank license: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresi- dents of domestic securities; (2) purchases of officially listed foreign securities with values 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ARUBA exceeding Af. 50,000 a year; and (3) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of foreign real estate. Proceeds from the liquidation of direct foreign in- vestments may be repatriated without restriction. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. On December 29, 1989, the closing buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were $A 1.261 = US$1 and $ A 1.262 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and with their customers at mu- tually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade- and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Foreign currency fu- tures contracts and options on futures are traded on the Sydney Futures Exchange. As part of Australia's current foreign exchange arrangements, a range of outward foreign exchange transactions is subject to procedural requirements in order to meet the Government's taxation- screening policies. A taxation clearance certificate issued by the Australian Taxation Office must be shown to authorized foreign exchange dealers be- fore foreign exchange or other means of payment are made available for certain transactions with resi- dents of designated countries and areas2 and for emigrants' remittances in excess of $ A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent to all countries. In re- spect of countries that are not designated for taxation-screening purposes, foreign exchange dealers are obliged to require that their customers complete declaration forms for outflows of more than $A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent which relate to investments, gifts, sustenance and trust distributions, loans or loan repayments, travel expenditure, remittances connected with futures irThe Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. 2These are listed as The Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Gre- nada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lux- embourg, Nauru, the Netherlands Antilles, Panama, Switzer- land, Tonga, and Vanuatu. operations overseas, and payments of interest, divi- dends, service fees, or royalties. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administer- ing the few requirements imposed under Aus- tralia's current foreign exchange arrangements. (Most exchange controls were abolished on Decem- ber 12, 1983.) Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,3 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia in exchange for Australian currency must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality; funds may also be repatriated without restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of for- eign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply in the case of interest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Import-licensing requirements, which had ap- plied to a very small range of secondhand equip- ment, were abolished in 1989. Relatively few tariffs are bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (about 20 percent); almost all rates are subject to some tariff-reduction program. In July 1989, the simple average rate of ad valorem tariffs was 10.6 percent. Tariffs for some sectors are relatively high, especially textiles and clothing (up to 60 percent), footwear (up to 45 percent), and passenger motor vehicles (40 percent); in the latter sector, however, there are no formal or informal quantitative import restrictions (in the form of 3Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 AUSTRALIA export restraints by supplier countries), and under current legislation, tariffs will be phased down to 35 percent by January 1, 1992. Australia's tariff-reduction program announced in May 1988 envisages that tariff rates above 15 per- cent will be reduced gradually to 15 percent by July 1992. Tariff rates higher than 10 percent but less than 15 percent will be phased down to 10 percent during this period. Proportional reductions are to be made to those tariff rates not expressed in ad val- orem terms. The exceptions to these policies are textiles, clothing, footwear, and passenger motor vehicles. These industries are covered by sectoral plans, under which the general tariff rates will be reduced over specified periods, but will remain at levels two to three times higher than those for other sectors.4 There are no quotas on imports other than tariff quotas. The tariff quotas apply to textiles, clothing, footwear, and cheese and curd. Australia, which is not a signatory of the Multifiber Arrangement, in- troduced revised tariff quota arrangements for tex- tiles, clothing, and footwear on March 1,1989. The scheme involves progressively reducing the base quota, allocated according to previous import per- formance, until it lapses on February 29,1992. Addi- tional tariff quotas are offered for tender and are freely transferable. They will be expanded automat- ically each year until they lapse on June 30, 1995, when the tariff quota system for textiles, clothing, and footwear will lapse. The tariff quota system for cheese and curd will lapse on June 30, 1992. For many products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. The range of goods subject to control include narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, particular chemicals, certain primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Aus- tralia's membership in international commodity agreements. Import-licensing requirements, which 4Some tariff-reduction schemes were already in place before the May 1988 Economic Statement. Tariff-phasing arrangements in progress at the end of 1987 were: reduction from 20 percent to 15 percent by September 1,1991 for chemicals and plastics; from 30 percent to 15 percent by January 1, 1992 for glass and glass- ware; from 25 percent to 15 percent by January 1,1990 for pulp, paper, and paper products; and from 40 percent to 10 percent by January 1, 1994 for processed vegetable products. had applied only to imports of secondhand machin- ery and equipment, were progressively reduced and then abolished on July 1, 1989. Australia's antidumping procedures have been simplified under the revised Customs Tariff (Anti- dumping) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link be- tween dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Industries that use imported products and other interested parties may also make submis- sions to the inquiry. Antidumping duties and un- dertakings will lapse automatically after three years, although domestic industries may renew the antidumping action. In special circumstances, anti- dumping actions may be introduced retrospectively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or sub- sidized goods. The Antidumping Authority has been established to advise the Government on these actions, although the Australian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investiga- tion of a complaint. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), almost all goods produced in New Zealand are imported duty free, and quantitative restrictions are being phased out to achieve free trade in goods by July 1, 1990. Imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand were subject to a customs tariff until January 1,1990. Quotas on tex- tiles and footwear were abolished on March 1,1989, and clothing quotas were terminated on July 1, 1989. Imports of sheep meat and dairy products from New Zealand are covered by understandings between the industries in each country, but these will lapse beginning July 1,1990. Antidumping ac- tions against imports from New Zealand will not be taken after July 1, 1990; they are expected to be replaced by actions to be taken under domestic trade practices legislation if it is considered neces- sary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets for most of the products ex- ported by the member countries.5 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference. Since 1986, a uniform pref- erential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has been set for all developing countries; 5The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand)—Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 23 where the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty free. The scheme will be fully implemented during 1990. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, pro- vided that the Government's taxation-screening re- quirements are met. (See section on Exchange Ar- rangement, above.) Travelers may take out of Australia unlimited amounts of foreign currency or Australian currency instruments purchased from authorized foreign ex- change dealers, and up to $A 5,000 in Australian notes and coins in any combination. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency instruments (other than Australian currency notes and coins), provided that they brought them into Australia. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for the liberalization of the trade in services between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's list of exclusions are telecommunications, banking, airport services and aviation, coastal shipping, media, and postal ser- vices. The operation of the trade-in-services pro- tocol is to be reviewed before December 31, 1990. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exports of Australian prod- ucts. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obli- gations under international arrangements; restrict the export of certain defense goods; regulate the export of goods that contain high technology and have dual civilian/military application;6 and main- tain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulating the disposal of export proceeds. Export controls are also exercised by the Govern- ment to secure national conservation objectives and to respond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on export prices of certain products. Export controls on many mineral and petroleum products were abolished or amended by the Gov- 6Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. ernment in 1987-88. Remaining controls apply mainly to food and agricultural products. In order to address distortions in the bauxite and alumina, coal, and iron sectors, the Government monitors trade in these products and retains the authority to withhold export approval for shipments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compliance with the Government's commercial and non- proliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also ap- ply on the export of certain other nuclear and re- lated materials. Export restrictions on copper scrap and copper alloy scrap are expected to be lifted this year. The export of crude oil and petroleum prod- ucts to South Africa is banned. Licenses are required for the export of un- processed wood, including woodchip. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distor- tions, and the promotion of further processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary re- straint agreements or similar restraint agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on ex- ports of sheep meat and goat meat as well as high- quality "Hilton" beef to the European Community, bovine meat and goat meat to Japan, and bovine meat and steel products to the United States. Aus- tralia has also entered into a voluntary export re- straint agreement with the United States on steel. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers ex- port control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of ex- ports to markets where quantitative restrictions ap- ply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed under the GATT for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can only be made by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right, and may introduce arrangements to control Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign or domes- tic bank notes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 AUSTRALIA Capital Provided that the procedural requirements of the Government's taxation-screening arrangements are met, the vast majority of transactions involving transfers of capital from Australia and nonresident investments at interest in Australia may be under- taken without formality. The only exceptions are that borrowings in Australia by foreign govern- ments, their agencies not similar to private sector commercial entities, and international organiza- tions are not permitted. Moreover, while there are no limits on the interest-bearing investments of in- ternational organizations or of foreign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an amount up to which the invest- ment of foreign government monetary institutions (which also undertake commercial investments) will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank advised of their Australian dollar portfolio. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Australian taxation. Investments at interest of a foreign government's official foreign reserves are exempt from taxation under the principle of sov- ereign immunity. Direct investment in Australia by nonresidents is subject to the Government's foreign investment policy, which is based on the recognition that for- eign investment makes a substantial contribution to the development of Australia's industries and re- sources. The Government's policy is therefore to welcome and encourage long-term direct foreign investments that have beneficial economic effects and are consistent with the needs of the Australian community. Proposals subject to review include those falling within the scope of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975; those involving the establish- ment of a new business or project, irrespective of size, in the media and civil aviation sectors, or in other sectors where the total amount of the invest- ment is $A 10 million or more (including diversifica- tion into activities not previously undertaken di- rectly in Australia and new projects in tourism, mining, and primary industries); those involving direct investment by foreign governments or their agencies (excluding investments related to their of- ficial representation); and proposals to acquire real estate and undertake real estate development projects. The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 is concerned with the acquisition by foreign inter- ests of companies or businesses operating in Aus- tralia and acquisitions of urban real estate. The Act requires nonresidents, non-resident-controlled cor- porations or businesses, and companies (including Australian companies) in which nonresidents have a substantial shareholding to notify the Govern- ment of proposals to acquire, or increase, a substan- tial interest in a business or to acquire an interest in urban real estate. A substantial foreign interest is an interest of 15 percent or more in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or business by a single foreign interest, either alone or together with asso- ciates, or an interest of 40 percent or more in aggre- gate in the ownership or voting power of a corpora- tion or business by two or more foreign interests and their associates. New investments (and acquisitions of existing businesses) in the industrial sectors are normally approved unless judged contrary to the national interest. Proposals involving civil aviation and the media are examined on a case-by-case basis, and acquisitions of existing mining (non-oil and gas) operations over $A 5 million are approved if suffi- cient economic benefits can be demonstrated. Cer- tain restrictions apply to investment in developed residential real estate. A nonresident may not hold or control more than 15 percent (and two or more nonresidents together, more than 20 percent) of the issued capital or voting rights in a company holding a broadcasting license. After inviting applications for banking licenses, the Government selected 16 foreign banks in 1985 to establish banking operations in Australia. It is not envisaged that further such invitations will be is- sued to foreign interests. The Government's policy on uranium projects provides for no further ura- nium mines to be developed and for further stages of the nuclear fuel cycle to be prohibited. Australia's foreign investment policy also provides an incentive for the "naturalization" of companies that are partly foreign owned. The natu- ralization process is an entirely voluntary one and may be entered into by companies that choose to increase the level of Australian participation in their Australian operations. Companies that elect to par- ticipate in the naturalization arrangements are en- titled to certain benefits while they are naturalizing. In particular, they are accorded prior credit for achieving majority Australian ownership, thereby facilitating their participation in mining projects and ventures that are subject to the Australian eq- uity participation guidelines. In the application of the policies, every effort is made to avoid unneces- sary interference in normal commercial processes, and recognition is given to the special characteris- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 25 tics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign In- vestment Review Board, which acts as an indepen- dent source of advice to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buying, or selling gold and gold coins in Australia. Residents may export and import gold other than Krugerrand, subject to normal customs pro- cedures. However, the export of Australian cur- rency coins (including gold coins) in excess of a maximum total value of $A 5,000 in any 12-month period requires the approval of the Reserve Bank of Australia. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Under the framework of the Australia- New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), the customs tariffs on au- tomotive parts were eliminated. March 1. New tariff quota arrangements were in- troduced for textile, clothing, and footwear sectors. Under the framework of the ANZCERTA, tariff quotas on imports of textiles and footwear from New Zealand were abolished. July 1. The embargo on sugar imports was lifted permanently and replaced by a tariff. Import- licensing requirements were abolished on sec- ondhand machinery and equipment. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The controls on sugar exports were lifted. October 20. Australia reached an agreement with the United States on a new quota for its exports of steel to the United States under the program of voluntary export restraints. The new quota repre- sented a substantial increase over the quota in 1988. Gold December 18. The export of Australian coins (in- cluding gold coins) in excess of a maximum total value of $ A 5,000 in any 12-month period was sub- ject to the approval of the Reserve Bank of Australia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on January 1, 1990) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the au- thorities aim at maintaining a stable relationship with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank does not intervene in the for- ward market or provide cover for commercial banks' forward positions. On December 29, 1989, the au- thorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 11.88 and S 11.89, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers ex- change control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. Export and import licenses required for goods by the Foreign Trade Act 1984, as amended in 1988, have to be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs with respect to industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry with respect to agricultural products. In in- stances where the customs authorities are autho- rized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of the ministries mentioned above, these are granted without delay or formal application (auto- matic licensing) at the time of the clearance of goods through customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, Free Schilling Accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents. They may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies by a nonresident to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authori- zation; they may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents. Balances may be freely con- verted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. For many goods, licenses are granted by customs at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country from which they are im- ported.1 Nearly all imports from General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and certain other countries2 have been liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Sec- tion 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. The importation of coffee is governed by the international agreement for this 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2These countries are: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangla- desh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bur- kina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faeroe Islands and Green- land), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equa- torial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozam- bique, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tan- zania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United King- dom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 27 commodity. Nonliberalized imports may be ob- tained under various procedures: namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discre- tionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potatoes, wheat, corn- starch, preserved meat, wine, and certain medica- ments. Discretionary individual licensing is appli- cable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of cer- tain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Mar- keting Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for peri- ods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Aus- tria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Gener- alized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from the 31 least-developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the Act. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving invisible payments. Payments on account of invisibles to nonresidents may be made freely. Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresi- dents without limitation; if the amount exceeds the equivalent of S 100,000, the Austrian National Bank must be informed. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings. The use of credit cards abroad for travel expenditures is permitted. Persons leaving Austria may take with them Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins in any amount. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export proceeds may be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in foreign currencies may be used freely for authorized pay- ments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with an authorized bank and may subsequently be used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may import Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian se- curities and shares and participation by nonresi- dents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are also not permitted to in- vest in the auditing, mining, energy, transport, or legal sectors, and they are not permitted to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships registered in Austria. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to residents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, require prior approval by the National Bank, except for shareholders granting to their own enterprises. Domestic banks may freely grant credits and loans to nonresidents. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria); and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents except to for- eign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 AUSTRIA enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend for- eign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment may be freely used. Residents are also permitted to acquire real estate abroad. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresi- dents, without restriction, Austrian and foreign se- curities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out through authorized banks, and the securities purchased must be kept with such banks, with the exception of securities listed on a domestic stock exchange. Resi- dents may sell foreign securities and Austrian exter- nal bonds to nonresidents only through an Austrian authorized bank. Gold Effective January 1, 1990, all transactions in gold were liberalized. Where the Foreign Trade Law pre- scribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Min- istry for Economic Affairs to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports within its jurisdiction. Changes During 1989 and January 1, 1990 Administration of Control January 1,1990. The exchange control system was substantially liberalized, and most restrictions on capital transfers were eliminated. Capital February 1,1989. Virtually all restrictions on long- term capital transfers were abolished. The only re- maining restrictions concerned (1) the issuance of securities on foreign capital markets and of foreign securities on domestic capital markets; and (2) the acquisition of real estate by nonresidents. Gold January 1, 1990. All transactions in gold were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market midrate, and the selling rate, 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.10 is applied to all outward remittances when the amount is B$30 or less. A further tax of B$0.10 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas where the resident is due to receive or has to pay foreign currency under a firm contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements unless the Central Bank's permission has been given. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign cur- rency forward with nonresidents without prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks may deal among themselves forward at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open position carried aThis is foreign currency in respect of which there is general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency se- curities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property, or of direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from non- residents of foreign currency securities and the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. either spot or forward does not exceed the equiv- alent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no for- ward cover arrangements in the official sector. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.2 Im- port and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in cer- tain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department is- sues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Ac- counts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, autho- rized banks may also open External Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for non- resident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the Central Bank's 2Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 THE BAHAMAS approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.4 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emi- grant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is cred- ited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transferable through the official ex- change market after four years or through the in- vestment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled because of health, social, or humanitarian reasons. All other goods may be im- ported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is nor- mally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of good. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers can make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments include freight, ships' disbursements, com- missions, royalties, education, and insurance pay- ments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The al- lowance of B$l,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for for- eign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities ob- 4Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "tem- porary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts in Baha- mian dollars. 5Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. tained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of his return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$10,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon applica- tion. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Tempo- rary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside The Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Tem- porary residents may also repatriate all of their ac- cumulated savings resulting from their employ- ment in The Bahamas. A traveler may take out Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not take out notes of any other country, except with the specific approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the import of foreign bank notes. The im- port of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of or participate in an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the specific permission of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 31 Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts.6 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency bor- rowed on suitable terms subject to individual ap- proval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary com- panies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Special procedures apply to invest- ments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisi- tion by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981, which came into effect on November 1,1983: foreigners intending to purchase land must make application to the Foreign Investments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Government. If such application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with invest- ment currency; expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Im- movable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981. A resident may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, nota- bly with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official for- eign exchange market; interest, dividends, and cap- ital payments on such securities may not be remit- ted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange or out of ex- port proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All pur- chases, sales, and switches of foreign currency se- curities in The Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wher- ever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign se- curities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency se- curities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by De- cember 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the invest- ment currency market; securities not so registered 6Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7There are 12 banks and trust companies authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive se- curities in deposit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 THE BAHAMAS may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Un- der normal rules persons leaving The Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person's redesignation as a non- resident, income accruing from his assets remain- ing in The Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require permission to borrow foreign currency from non- residents, and authorized dealers are subject to ex- change control directions with regard to their lend- ing of foreign currency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conver- sion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which per- mission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresidents is not normally allowed to raise work- ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally deter- mined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic currency to any cor- porate body (other than a bank) that is resident in The Bahamas and is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies that are set up by nonresi- dents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not nor- mally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from res- idents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; bor- rowings in a foreign currency normally are permit- ted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import duty of 35 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A1.5 percent stamp tax payable to customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in de- nominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of plus or minus 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and since December 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.6596. With the appre- ciation of the U.S. dollar against other major curren- cies in the early 1980s, the exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR remained outside the 7.25 per- cent margin throughout the period May 1981- June 1986. The exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR returned to within the 7.25 percent margin in July 1986 and remained within this margin dur- ing 1989. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recom- mended rates for banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those cur- rencies. On December 29, 1989, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (spe- cial rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector, while the BMA monitors forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of commercial banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and al- coholic beverages). However, importers and export- ers must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agri- culture and must be members of the Bahrain Cham- ber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Im- ports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or se- curity. Imports of cultured pearls are also pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic bev- erages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities; the customs tariffs on alcoholic beverages and tobacco are 125 percent and 50 percent, respectively. Government procure- ments are required to give preference to goods pro- duced in Bahrain and within the member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of im- ported substitutes; the margins are 10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods produced within the member countries of the GCC. Foreign exchange for payments in respect of permit- ted imports may be obtained freely. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 BAHRAIN Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are at- tached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, with the exception that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed off- shore banking units may freely engage in transac- tions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2,1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17, 1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other commodities) requires approval from the BMA before registering with the Ministry of Com- merce and Agriculture; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1989 Capital January 2. The stock exchange began operations. (Actual trading on the floor of the stock exchange started on June 17.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1989, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 32.27 = US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 32.23 and Tk 32.31, re- spectively, per US$1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 32.1987 and Tk 32.3413, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for curren- cies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Different effective exchange rates arise from the operation of the Secondary Exchange Market (SEM), which comprises the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES) and the Export Performance Benefit (XPB) Scheme. Under the WES, foreign exchange earn- ings remitted by workers abroad, tourist receipts, and most service receipts are sold at a rate deter- mined by a committee of authorized foreign ex- change dealers (mainly banks) constituted by the Bangladesh Bank. Under the XPB scheme, export- ers and certain indirect exporters of nontraditional items are eligible to receive an exchange rate pre- mium, which is set to equal the difference between the WES rate (in taka per U.S. dollar) and the official rate. Each eligible item receives a coefficient of ei- ther 40 percent, 70 percent, or 100 percent of the XPB, depending on that item's domestic value added and the priority that the Government places on encouraging its export. At the end of 1989, 70 items were eligible for 100 percent of the XPB, cover- ing domestic value added of 70 percent and higher. A coefficient of 70 percent was given to 38 items with a value added of between 50 percent and 69 percent. However, light engineering products, machine tools and equipment, cast-iron products, household electrical appliances, and electric cables with a value added of 60 percent and above, be- tween 40 percent and 59 percent, and less than 40 percent were given coefficients of 100 percent, 70 percent, and 60 percent, respectively. Exports of garments and leather were subject to a schedule of coefficients. Garments received 70 percent XPB if they were made from imported raw materials, and 100 percent XPB if domestic materials were used. For leather items, the coefficients were 40 percent for products using imported raw materials and 100 percent for products using domestic materials. Seventy percent XPB was given to exports of inter- mediate textile products (i.e., fabric) and to domes- tic sales of intermediate products that were finished locally and then exported. All other nontraditional exports, except wet-blue leather, received 40 per- cent XPB. On December 31, 1989, the middle ex- change rate in the secondary market was Tk 32.925 per US$1. The present exchange rate policy is to limit the spread between the official and the second- ary market exchange rates to 2 percent. Forward facilities at authorized banks are avail- able in all approved foreign currencies and in cur- rencies of the member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (ACU),1 covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. The authorized banks may in their turn take forward cover in the interbank market or from the Bangladesh Bank against transactions for which they have entered into forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks may also take for- ward cover for one month from the Bangladesh Bank against sight export bills negotiated by them, and enter into forward contracts with their overseas branches/correspondents against underlying ex- port or import transactions. Authorized banks are permitted to retain relatively small working bal- ances with their foreign correspondents, and cur- rency swaps are not permitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transac- tions. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member countries of the ACU. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangla- desh Bank in accordance with general policy formu- lated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and ten domestic commercial 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 BANGLADESH banks (of which three are nationalized), together with three joint-venture banks and four specialized financial institutions, have been appointed autho- rized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign ex- change. The Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and a separate import license is not required. Certain trade trans- actions are conducted through state-trading agen- cies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangla- desh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 normally must be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements up to agreed value limits; settlement with these coun- tries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements or beyond the value ceilings specified in the agree- ments. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU) through the Clearing Union.3 Settlements with other countries normally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importa- tion is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresident Taka Account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are 2Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hung- ary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. 3The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording transactions through the ACU. regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangla- desh Bank in respect of Bangladesh nationals/ foreign nationals who reside abroad and in respect of foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other de- bits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit humanitarian organizations func- tioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate em- ployees, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the pro- ceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remit- tances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely per- mitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their ex- patriate personnel, foreign airline/shipping com- panies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the WES, Bangla- desh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open For- eign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible curren- cies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible cur- rencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the WES; and (4) transfers from Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but must be reported 4The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 37 to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the WES; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank com- missions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness or private purposes up to prescribed limits. For travel on private purposes, the upper limit is the equivalent of US$400 a person a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for air travel to Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka (but up to US$150 for over- land travel to India); and US$1,500 a person a year and a maximum of US$600 a trip for travel to other countries. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals residing abroad, foreign na- tionals, and foreign companies/firms registered and/or incorporated abroad, banks, and other fi- nancial institutions, including institutional inves- tors, may open interest-bearing Nonresident For- eign Currency Deposit Accounts, denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500 (US$25,000 for foreigners), with (1) remittances in convertible currencies, and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Ac- counts maintained under the WES. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at Eurocur- rency deposit rates. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the WES, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Ac- count maintained under the WES. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the SEM rate (at the official rate for foreigners), must be reported by banks monthly to the Bangla- desh Bank and the accounts must be closed within one year or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon the taking up of permanent residence by the account holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by an annual import policy (IPO) announced by the Government. The IPO for the fiscal years 1989/90 and 1990/91 (July to June) was, however, announced in July 1989. It is based on a list of controlled items described accord- ing to the Harmonized System of Nomenclature and the Import Trade Control (ITC) schedule. The Controlled List contains items in 353 out of 1,239 categories at the ITC four-digit level, the importa- tion of which is restricted or prohibited either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are locally produced. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inputs, certain textiles, factory rejects, goods of substandard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. Items not on these lists are freely importable through the SEM, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certifi- cate. Imports at the official exchange rate are subject to allocation on the basis of foreign exchange avail- ability. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of imports by government de- partments, letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) are required of all registered importers for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, registered commercial im- porters are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without the need for an import license. For imports under the SEM Scheme, an importer is required to have a valid import registration certificate either as a commercial importer or industrial consumer or under the SEM Scheme. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports trans- ported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For shipment of imports under cash and the SEM Scheme, the validity of LCAFs is as follows: (1) 11 months from the date of issuance/ registration of an LCAF for commercial items and industrial raw and packing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer, they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may effect remittances within 12 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of commercial items and industrial raw mate- rials and packing materials and within 18 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require additional time to make remit- tances, then authorized dealers may allow such re- mittances only under the SEM Scheme. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 BANGLADESH Under the SEM Scheme, a provision exists for the importation of machinery and equipment against letters of credit opened on a deferred-payment basis for up to 360 days. Raw materials may be imported under letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis up to 180 days. Recognized export-oriented ready- made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse sys- tem may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred- payment basis up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization by the Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Industries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement for the importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitle- ment system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable under the SEM Scheme. However, for items appearing on the controlled list, the entitlement system applies even to imports under the SEM Scheme. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods im- ported against LCAFs issued to industrial con- sumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is pro- vided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individ- ual basis. The allowance for personal travel by resi- dent Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pak- istan, and Sri Lanka is US$1,500 a year, subject to a maximum of US$600 a visit. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 100 million during the preceding year are entitled to a maximum business travel allowance of US$40,000 a year. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 50 million but not exceeding Tk 100 million in the preceding year are entitled to the allowance equiv- alent to 2 percent of the f .o.b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum of US$30,000 a year. Those with export earnings exceeding Tk 2.5 million but not exceeding Tk 50 million in the preceding year are also entitled to the allowance equivalent to 2 per- cent of the f .o.b. value of their exports, subject to a minimum of US$6,000 and a maximum of US$20,000 a year; exporters with a performance of up to Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year are al- lowed up to US$6,000 a year. New exporters are allowed up to a maximum of US$4,000 a year. Export houses are entitled to business travel allowances equivalent to 2.5 percent of their preceding year's export earnings, subject to a minimum of US$40,000 and a maximum of US$150,000. All business travel allowance must be purchased at the SEM rate. For medical treatment, the amount granted is the actual requirement, which must be purchased at the SEM rate, subject to the approval of the Bangladesh Bank. A Bangladesh national flying abroad is al- lowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the WES, subject to cer- tain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance; such approval is usually granted for Up to 50 percent of net salaries, if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on en- try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their exit; if they made no declara- tion, they may reconvert up to US$150. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and trav- eler's checks up to the amount of any travel alloca- tion they have been granted. A Bangladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh cur- rency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of jute and jute goods must be registered with the Bangladesh Bank. Since July 1, 1989, a cash subsidy in lieu of XPB has been granted to exports of jute goods at the following rates (based on f .o.b. value): (1) 10 percent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 39 for sacking; (2) 15 percent for hessian and yarn; and (3) 20 percent for carpet backing and other nontradi- tional jute goods. (See section on Exchange Ar- rangement, above, on the Export Performance Ben- efit Scheme (XPB)). Joint ventures, other than the garment industry, located in Export Processing Zones (EPZ) are al- lowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and convert the remaining 30 percent at the secondary market ex- change rate and keep it in a bank account in domes- tic currency. Balances on domestic currency bank accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the SEM rate for payments of imported goods. The retention rate for the garment industry is 75 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Ac- counts or in Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the Ban- gladesh Bank, all Bangladesh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to surrender within one month of the date of acquisi- tion any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign cur- rency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit by any person, provided that the total amount brought in is declared upon arrival. No declaration is required for the import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$1,000 by nonresidents and US$750 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable as- sets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladesh nationals. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Ban- gladesh requires approval. This requirement ap- plies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin requires approval. Borrowing by non-resident-owned or non-resident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by autho- rized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also re- quire approval. They may grant, without reference to the Bangladesh Bank, loans in domestic currency to foreign-owned manufacturing companies lo- cated in Bangladesh to the extent of 140 percent of their paid-up capital, reserves, undistributed profits, and unremitted dividends as disclosed by their last audited balance sheets. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to companies controlled by per- sons resident outside .Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresi- dents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign as- sets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is re- quired for nonresidents to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Pro- motion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and pri- vate entrepreneurs. The act provides, inter alia, for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guar- antee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 BANGLADESH For a new investment, foreign investors are gen- erally required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange compo- nent. There is no ceiling on private investment, but any investments above Tk 100 million need special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All invest- ments in which the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 percent require the approval of the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remit- ted freely after payment of taxes, except that 10 per- cent of the annual remittable profits must be held in Bangladesh by sterling tea companies until the total amount held is equal to 200 percent of paid-up capital. Gold The import and export of gold and silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. Exports of gold are allowed only in jewelry form under the Jewelry Ex- port Scheme. There are no restrictions on the inter- nal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The import policy (IPO) for the fiscal years 1989/90 and 1990/91 was announced. The negative and restricted lists were merged into one list called the Controlled List. Some 113 items were liber- alized, and about 33 new items were placed on the Controlled List. The Controlled List thus reduced the previous negative and restricted lists by about 18 percent. After this change, the Controlled List contained about 353 items. Payments for Invisibles September 12. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel abroad by exporters were increased to a range of US$4,000-150,000 depending upon the size of the export companies. October 18. The ceiling of £ stg. 200 a month on remittances for family maintenance purposes by foreign nationals working in Bangladesh was eliminated. November 18. The allowance for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka was established at US$1,500 a year, subject to a maximum of US$600 a visit. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The export policy for 1989/90 and 1990/91 was announced. Special export incentives were in- troduced for toys, luggage, and fashion goods; and electronic and leather products, and frozen foods and electronics were selected as priority export sec- tors. A cash subsidy in lieu of XPB would be granted to exports of jute goods at the following rates (based on the f.o.b. value): (1) 10 percent for sacking; (2) 15 percent for hessian and yarn; and (3) 20 per- cent for carpet backing and other nontraditional jute goods. Nine export houses were given official status. September 4. Joint ventures, other than the gar- ment industry, located in Export Processing Zones (EPZ) were allowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit ac- count and convert the remaining 30 percent at the secondary market exchange rate and keep it in a bank account in domestic currency. Balances on domestic currency bank accounts may be converted into foreign exchange at the SEM rate for payments of imported goods. The retention rate for the gar- ment industry is 75 percent. Capital September 30. Authorized dealers were allowed to grant, without reference to the Bangladesh Bank, loans in domestic currency to foreign-owned man- ufacturing companies located in Bangladesh to the extent of 140 percent of their paid-up capital, re- serves, undistributed profits, and unremitted divi- dends as disclosed by their last audited balance sheets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, atBDS$2 = US$1. On December 29,1989, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$L9?75 and BDS$2.0400, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates in- clude commission charges of 0.1250 percent, buying and 2.0 percent, selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent, buying and 2.0 percent, selling against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Bar- bados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.7257 and BDS$1.7636, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.1833 and BDS$1.2093, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$3.2210 and BDS$3.2916, respec- tively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.1875 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the pur- chase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for pri- vate sector remittances abroad (except for remit- tances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the Central Govern- ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ex- change loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- irThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain for- ward cover in the international markets. Swap transactions in U.S. dollars are entered into be- tween the Central Bank and commercial banks, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the alloca- tion of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should nor- mally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resi- dent in South Africa. Trade controls are admin- istered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an Exter- nal Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and To- bago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of resi- dents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BARBADOS Accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of for- eign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Bal- ances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM coun- tries require individual licenses. Import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (par- ticularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list" for certain gar- ments, the importation of which is totally pro- hibited if the product is below a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for im- ports of commodities that are subject to the provi- sions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agri- cultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release for- eign currency for advance payments for imports into Barbados up to the equivalent of BDS$20,000 (c.i.f.). Payments over BDS$20;000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the applica- tion is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign ex- change for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calen- dar year may be allocated for private travel within or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel within the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses for education abroad (BDS$20,OOOa person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a y£ar, subscriptions to newspapers f and magazines (BDS$500 a person a year), incoihe tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purpbses for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Outward remittances of funds to overseas insurers or other pension fund administra- tors are subject to a tax of 6 percent. Residents traveling to any destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they pre- viously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 43 to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum prod- ucts. All other goods may be exported without li- cense. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are sub- ject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Economic Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct in- vestments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surren- dered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control ap- proval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are re- stricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresi- dent beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of se- curities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capi- tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may as- sume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private per- sons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold ac- quired in Barbados must be surrendered to an au- thorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and in- dustrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are sub- ject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to im- port gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade, Indus- try and Commerce; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BARBADOS Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments March 20. Vessels for pleasure or sport, excluding yachts, were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. August 3. Worcestershire sauce was added to the list of items requiring import licenses. August 11. Melons, fresh or chilled vegetables, and vegetables (whether or not cooked) preserved by freezing were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. November 18. Handcuffs of any material were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. Gold June 2. The Central Bank of Barbados issued a BDS$100 gold coin to commemorate the 350th anni- versary of Parliament in Barbados. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a mone- tary association within which the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxembourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot ex- change rates1 between their currencies and the cur- rencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent2) above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1989, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 528.7000 2,016.5500 601.2950 54.0250 2.6953 553.0000 2,109.5000 628.9700 56.5115 3.0387 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1,872.1500 1,789.8500 100 Spanish pesetas 33.6930 29.8850 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot ex- change markets, the official (or regulated) market ^nly with respect to the official (or regulated) exchange rate; the EMS mechanism does not apply to the free exchange market rate. 2The margins of the Italian lira were reduced to plus or minus 2.25 percent, effective January 8, 1990. 45 and the free market.3 Most current transactions are settled in the official market; and only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permit- ted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. Authorized banks may sell on the official market currencies acquired on the free market. Most convertible cur- rencies are dealt in the official market.4 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire convertible currencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make for- ward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days of delivery (on the delivery date itself if the maturity of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not used to cover authorized outward payments through the official market must be surrendered to the Treasury. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 35.67 and BF 35.85, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (in- cluding domestic and foreign bank notes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On De- cember 29, 1989, the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 35.76 buying and BF 35.78 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transac- 3The two-tier exchange market system was abolished, effective March 5, 1990. Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zai'res. The ECU is treated on an equal footing with the other currencies traded in the official market. The Australian dollar and the South African rand are not officially quoted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG tion. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Banks in Luxembourg may not accept deposits in Luxembourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Belgian- Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgian- Luxembourg Administrative Commission has au- thority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licens- ing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is ex- ercised by the Bank Commission, and in Lux- embourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary Institute. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements oper- ate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate ex- change market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the ap- propriate category of nonresident account.5 All inward and outward transactions are classi- fied into four groups, which may be summarized as follows. List A covers merchandise, transport ex- penses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of process- ing), and other commercial expenses, including in- surance, administrative expenses of sales agencies and credit card companies, and sharing in admin- istrative expenses of central offices by branches and affiliates. List B covers settlements of travel agen- cies, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments. It also in- cludes family support payments by immigrant workers of foreign nationality. List C covers income on securities, loans, rents, and operating profits; and repatriation of certain foreign long-term invest- ments and transfers by emigrants of foreign na- tionality. List D covers gifts, life insurance pay- ments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of long-term investments, dealings in gold and diamonds, transfers by emi- grants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, trans- fers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all trans- actions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for for- eign payments are as summarized in the table below. 5Since the abolition of the two-tier exchange market system (effective March 5, 1990), all methods of settlement of foreign payments are freely permitted, and the distinction between con- vertible and financial accounts in francs has disappeared. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET A,B C D A,B C,D Outward Payments Convertible Official Any Official or Free Free Any Inward Payments Convertible Official Any Official or Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Convertible Convertible or Financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 47 In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enter- prises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, imports of diamonds, including related costs, may be paid for only in foreign currencies through the free market, or in Belgian or Lux- embourg francs by means of nonresident Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these ac- counts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.6 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents that either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the offi- cial market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convert- ible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or to Financial Ac- counts or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub- ject to authorization by the BLEI if they are extended for more than six months and for use other than immediate payment in favor of residents for transac- tions specified on Lists A and B. A minimum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain peri- ods for mail-credit advances in Convertible Ac- counts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand de- posits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. International organizations and foreign diplomatic represen- tations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of these organizations and representations may maintain Special Convertible Accounts, which may be credited with their re- muneration in Belgian francs, provided they agree in writing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover their cur- rent expenses in the BLEU. However, on March 5,1990, with the abolition of the two-tier exchange market system, the Special Convertible Accounts were eliminated. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened for all nonresidents.7 They may be used freely for settlements that either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresi- dent of gold or any currency in the free or the official market. Domestic bank notes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign bank notes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Ac- counts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account must be credited or deb- ited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam;8 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.9 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, dia- monds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license. Many com- modities subject to individual licensing are also ad- mitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other European Communities (EC) countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) 7Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic representations accredited in the BLEU and by specified interna- tional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. However, on March 5, 1990, with the abolition of the two-tier exchange market system, As- similated Resident Accounts were eliminated. 8Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of com- modities when originating in and shipped from these countries. 9Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Import payments are subject to the same rules as those applicable to payments for invisibles (List A). No exchange control documentation is required. Special authorization must be obtained for import payments that precede the date of customs clear- ance by more than three months. Payments for tran- sit transactions must be supported by a form (model T), which must be presented to an authorized bank; these payments cannot be made earlier than three months before the date on which the payment from the foreign buyer is expected to be received. Other transit payments are subject to the same rules as those that apply to payments for invisibles (List A). Import and transit payments, that are fully or partially settled by means of bilateral netting have to be reported to BLEI. Authorization of the BLEI is required for participation in a multilateral netting system involving import and transit payments. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange mar- ket or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. An authorized bank is re- quired to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods stipulated in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that spot foreign exchange is not acquired until the pay- ment is due. Payments for items on List C can be made either through the official market (alter- natively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or through the free mar- ket (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Lux- embourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes). In some exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the BLEI is required for payments through the official market. Payments for items on List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Ac- count, or in foreign or domestic bank notes). For- eign and domestic bank notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.10 All other exports are free of license. Export proceeds must be collected in accordance with the same rules as those that apply to proceeds from invisibles (List A). Exchange control docu- mentation is not required. Special authorization must be obtained to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Proceeds from transit transactions have to be noti- fied on a form (model T), which must be presented to an authorized bank. These proceeds must be collected within three months of the date of pay- ment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from other transit transactions have to be collected in accor- dance with the same rules as those that apply to proceeds from invisibles (List A). Export and transit receipts that are fully or par- tially settled by means of bilateral netting have to be reported to the BLEI. Authorization of the BLEI is required for participation in a multilateral netting system involving export and transit receipts. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank or to an account held with a bank outside the BLEU, with the prior agreement of the BLEU if they are to be used later for authorized current payments through the official market. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these ac- counts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The BLEI may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official market, to abstain tem- porarily from making new deposits, and to sur- render to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Receipts in foreign currencies from transactions included in Lists C and D may be re- tained or sold in the official or the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign bank notes. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or 10Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 49 Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Direct investments by companies and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emi- grants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market under special license may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Lux- embourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by nonresidents, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 months before the maturity date. All transactions in se- curities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital trans- actions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Fi- nance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by interna- tional organizations, while issues of Eurobonds de- nominated in Belgian francs are not normally per- mitted. Public bids by foreign companies pr individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance. The Luxembourg Monetary Institute (LMI) regu- lates the issue of franc-denominated bonds on the Luxembourg capital market:11 for public bond is- sues, an official calendar is established and priority is given to domestic public sector borrowing and to enterprises utilizing the funds for domestic invest- ment; for private bond issues, no official calendar exists, but the LMI monitors the overall volume and frequency of issues. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; settlements of gold transactions in coins or bars may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Im- ports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value-added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 per- cent. Licenses are required for imports of semi- processed gold. Imports of gold for industrial, artis- tic, or medical use may be paid through the official market. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 15. Profits resulting from forward sales of foreign currencies that are not used to cover autho- rized inward payments through the official market would no longer have to be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control July 1. Prior examination of supporting docu- ments by the BLEI for outgoing payments of more than BF 25 million through the official market (or by crediting francs to a Convertible Account) would no longer be required. Nonresident Accounts July 15. Advances on Convertible Accounts would be allowed if extended for at most six months and used for immediate payment in favor of residents for transactions specified on Lists A and B. 11 With effect from July 1,1990, the LMI will no longer regulate the issuance of franc-denominated bonds on the Luxembourg capital market, and issuance will have to be reported to the LMI for surveillance purposes only. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, and a num- ber of currencies of member countries of the CAR- icoM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to foreign currency. Belize acccepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the admin- istration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in excep- tional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign ex- change processed by authorized dealers are reg- ularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement re- lates to a specified list of currencies2 in which autho- rized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. xThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and To- bago dollars. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency ac- counts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be cred- ited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 12 percent of the c.i.f. value; the rate of stamp duty on citrus is 25 percent. Im- ports by most of the public sector and certain non- profit entities, imports of an emergency or human- itarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$2,500 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a person, up to BZ$10,000 a year; (3) business or non- business travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an exter- nal account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (4) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year (apart from a once-only allowance of BZ$1,000 for educational expenses and maintenance); and (5) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 51 except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export prod- ucts. Export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent. Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 per- cent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize 3Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export duty is 2 percent. are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their excess hold- ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require approval of the Cen- tral Bank, but control is liberally administered. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all non-West African Monetary Union (WAMU) coun- tries, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. Banks may levy a flat commission of CFAF 100 on intra-WAMU transfers, which they may retain. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward ex- change contracts may be arranged, with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance, for pay- ments for specified imports. The maturity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's ex- change control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries but, for purposes of certain controls relating to capital flows, the coun- tries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Currency and Credit in the Ministry of Fi- nance, in conjunction with the Directorate of Exter- nal Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the commmon currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. lect, either directly or through banks, financial in- stitutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious and semi- precious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the National Executive Council (Council of Ministers). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China and specified socialist countries, however, are made through special accounts.2 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold Foreign Accounts in Francs with authorized intermediary banks. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized intermediary bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized intermediary bank. 2There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 53 Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, with- out prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries di- rect to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Cer- tain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods from non-Operations Account countries, whether made with or without transfer of exchange, are subject to import licenses or prior authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been im- ported. Import licenses are subject to a tax equiv- alent to 0.85 percent of the c.i.f. value of corre- sponding imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval au- thority has been delegated to authorized intermedi- ary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Admin- istration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. How- ever, with the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, larger allocations may be obtained up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and up to the equivalent of CFAF 1,500,000 for business travel. The transfer of one half of the net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted, subject to authorization by the Directorate of Money and Credit upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- utilized foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, subject to adjust- ment for amounts exchanged for CEA francs or ob- tained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Ac- count; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports to all foreign countries, including the Opera- tions Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date of payment for exports may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination; the foreign ex- change thus received must be sold to an authorized bank within 30 days of payment due date, and its proceeds must be repatriated to Benin by the latter by transfer via the BCEAO. Irrespective of currency of payment, prior authorization is required for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BENIN retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Be- nin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are main- tained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The Minister may re- quest the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister in charge of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a di- rect investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by in- dustrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance im- ports and exports; (3) loans contracted by autho- rized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the special authorization of the Minis- ter of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 55 The Investment Code (Law No. 82-005 of May 20, 1982) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for public and mixed enterprises operating at the national and provincial levels and provides, during a period of up to five years, for exemption horn import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item and from certain other taxation. Plan B is intended for domestic and foreign private enterprises contributing to the economic and social development of Benin and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain tax privileges for a maximum exemption period of five years. Plan C is intended for vety large enterprises wishing to con- clude incorporation agreements with Benin and is granted for a period of up to ten years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain ad- vantages. For Plans A, B, and C, up to two years for installation time may be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for small and medium-sized domestic enterprises and cooperatives for up to five years. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 28^254 of July 13, 1983. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the National Economic Council (Council of Min- isters), acting on the advice of the Minister of Fi- nance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semi- precious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and ex- ports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be deter- mined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments July 21. The import licensing requirements with respect to imports from Operations Account and "ACP" countries were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974, it has been pegged to the In- dian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other ex- change rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 16.65 and Nu 17.15 per US$1, respectively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. Beginning from July 26, 1985, substantial powers are delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Au- thority to release foreign exchange (other than In- dian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from mer- chandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. the Royal Monetary Authority, which has discre- tionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties exist on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at the rate of 30 per- cent of the c.i.f. value and a notional 10 percent profit. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin, re- quire approval by the Government. Proceeds of ex- ports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Au- thority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes During 1989 Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from August 1. The responsibility for approving the use of foreign exchange for imports was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Authority. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The official selling rate is determined at an auction held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official selling rate was Bs 2.98 = US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of US$5,000 or multi- ples of this amount. The minimum allowable bid is US$5,000 or multiples of this amount. Successful bid- ders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. Since February 1,1989, sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public have been subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds from the export of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and indi- viduals can buy and sell foreign exchange freely. Successful bids channeled through the banking sys- tem are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not complying with the legal reserve re- quirement on deposits at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including the public enterprises, must purchase foreign ex- change for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the exchange rate on December 29, 1989 was Bs 2.97 = US$1 (buying) and Bs 3.03 = US$1 (selling). There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. also the enforcing agency for export surrender re- quirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt- service payments. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of sugar and edible oil, which are temporarily subject to licensing requirements, and those con- trolled for reasons of public health or national security. Most capital goods are subject to a constant tariff of 10 percent, and the customs tariff rate on all other goods is 17 percent; only goods imported by the diplomatic corps and donated wheat are exempt from customs tariffs. The customs tariffs on capital goods are payable over a three-year period with a one-year grace period, rather than on importation. Licenses with a validity period of 120 days are re- quired for the importation of edible oil. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of between 1.89 and 1.90 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Outward remittances of profit are governed by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Bolivia is in charge of operat- ing the auction market for foreign exchange. It is Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BOLIVIA be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign ex- change expenditures undertaken to effect the ex- port. Exports, other than hydrocarbons, are subject to an inspection fee of 1.67 percent of the f.o.b. value (including value-added tax); the fee is 1.05 percent in the case of exports by Specialist Services International Limited (SSI) and 1.65 per- cent in the case of exports by Bureau Veritas. Export- ers of nontraditional products receive, at the time of the surrender of foreign exchange receipts, a customs duty rebate certificate (certificado de rein- tegro arancelario (CRA)) equivalent to 10 percent of the net value of exports as determined by the Cen- tral Bank of Bolivia. The certificates are denomi- nated in domestic currency but maintain their value in U.S. dollars, and they may be in multiples of Bs 100. Exporters may transfer the certificates or use them for income tax and customs duty payments, except for the tax on presumed income of property owners. In May 1989, the period during which to claim CRAs was lengthened from six months to one year from the date of exportation. As regards min- erals, the Compania Minera Boliviana (COMIBOL) and the medium-sized mines export their own pro- duction, and the Mining Bank exports the produc- tion of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documen- tary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign ex- change purchases from invisible transactions, in- cluding those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all pro- ceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11, 1983, fi- nancial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or exter- nal lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29,1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade operations such as letters of credit, bonds and guarantees, advances and accep- tances, loans for the required financing with their correspondents abroad, and other operations gen- erally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those in- volving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree Law No. 18751) of December 14,1981. The law is admin- istered by the National Investment Institute. Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and Mining Code. Cer- tain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement February 1. Sales of foreign exchange by the Cen- tral Bank to the public were subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Imports and Import Payments May 16. Temporary import-licensing require- ments for edible oil were introduced. June 19. All exemptions from customs tariffs, with the exception of those for imports of the diplomatic corps and donated wheat, were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds May 12. The period during which nontraditional exporters may claim CRAs was extended from six months to one year from the date of exportation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of a weight of approximately 60 percent for the South African rand and of approximately 40 percent for the SDR. On December 29, 1989, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, was P 1.8723 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 2.4667 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other cur- rencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. External borrowings by parastatals are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk Sharing Scheme. Risk associated with fluctuations in the exchange rate from 4 per- cent up to 10 percent is fully borne by the borrower. With respect to risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations above 10 percent and up to 15 percent, the Government bears one half of the risk. Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations above 15 percent is fully borne by the Government. For- ward exchange cover is also offered by the commer- cial banks. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods is six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and De- velopment Planning has delegated most of the ad- ministration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a non-resident-held pula ac- 1 Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, European Currency Units, and SDRs. count in Botswana. Botswana does not maintain any bilateral payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods im- ported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agri- cultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import shipments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from exchange controls. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits is delegated to commercial banks. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of P 12,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 6,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel is P 600 a day, up to a maximum of P 35,000 a calendar year. The amount of unused foreign cur- rency for travel that a resident can retain for future travel use is the equivalent of P 1,000 in currency or traveler's checks; any excess amount must be sur- rendered within two months of the date of return in the case of currency notes and coins, and six 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 BOTSWANA months in the case of traveler's checks. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent residents is P 3,000 a month a person and P 5,000 a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. The an- nual limit on outward remittances by a temporary resident on contract is P 25,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater; for a self- employed temporary resident, the limit is P 25,000. Separately, travelers may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in amounts of P 500 and P 1,000, respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coins. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance by residents of foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in proven cases of commercial need for such a facility. Authorized dealers may approve payment of dividends to nonresidents up to P 75,000 a year a company; payments in excess of this limit may be authorized by the Bank of Botswana. merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward investment in new or existing busi- nesses is generally encouraged. Any local borrow- ing in excess of P 300,000 by non-resident-controlled companies must be matched by nonresident funds in the company in a 4:1 debt-to-equity ratio. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded if the proj- ect is to create significant employment. Any exter- nal borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigration allowance of up to P 150,000. The balance of assets may normally be remitted in equal installments over three years from the date of departure, but faster remittances may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Changes During 1989 Capital Pension and life assurance funds may invest up to one half of their funds abroad. Applications for in- vestment abroad of other funds are treated on their Exchange Arrangement June 3. The external value of the Botswana pula was reduced by 5 percent against the basket to which it was pegged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the New Cruzadp (NCz$).1 Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate pol- icy under which the exchange rate for the new cruzado is adjusted on a daily basis in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Cen- tral Bank of Brazil and by banks and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the Central Bank and the effec- tive rates of the Central Bank is ensured by the Central Bank's practice of standing ready to pur- chase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transactions. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank to the public were NCz$11.302 and NCz$11.358, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates apply to "agree- ment dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Eu- rope. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calcu- lated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates of up to 3/ie of 1 percent on either side of the rates set by the Central Bank. Different effective rates arise, on the selling side, from (1) the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de crtdito, c&mbio e seguro, e sobre operagoes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios) (IOF) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of selected services and the extension of short-term trade credit, and (2) the requirement that payments for Brazilian investment abroad be made in gold instead of cruzados.2 Different effec- tive rates arise, on the buying side, from (1) payment in gold to exporters of gems and other precious stones, and (2) payment in gold to Brazilian investors abroad for foreign exchange receipts cor- responding to profits and dividends. In addition, an 1 Effective March 15, 1990, Brazil replaced the new cruzado (NCz$) with a new monetary unit, the cruzeiro (Cr$) at the rate of NCz$l = Cr$l. 2This requirement was postponed indefinitely on July 27, 1989. exchange market for tourism transactions at a rate freely determined by market participants has been in operation since January 1989. Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign ex- change. The limits are fixed in relation to the regis- tered capital of each bank; a bought position of US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 million apply to most banks. Banks that are autho- rized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each autho- rized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to au- thorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position; it is lim- ited to 100 percent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers during the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their manual market position (bank notes and traveler's checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, subject to certain condi- tions; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transac- tions or not later than 180 days for forward transac- tions. The commercial banks are permitted to provide forward exchange facilities to exporters, usually for a period of up to 180 days. The banks provide daily forward quotations for foreign curren- cies, with forward premia reflecting corresponding interest differentials between the countries con- cerned. Commercial banks are subject to daily limits on bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is respon- sible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines estab- lished by the Council, exchange controls, regula- tions affecting foreign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. Limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Control of Public Enterprises (SEST) in the Planning and Coordinating Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic, and the National Treasury Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BRAZIL The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formu- lates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade De- partment of the Banco do Brasil S. A. (CACEX) imple- ments the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de expor- tagao or declaragdos de exportagdo and guias de importagdo). Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Cof- fee Institute (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries3 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrange- ments are made in U.S. dollars or other freely us- able currencies. Foreign Exchange Accounts Since October 30,1986, exporters, importers, na- tional companies with foreign capital participation, and official institutions in the field of education and technological research have been authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank. On June 29, 1988, foreign ex- change accounts held by exporters and importers began to be gradually abolished, and were abol- ished in February 1989; however, effective Novem- 3Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Bulgaria and the German Democratic Republic. Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on the international capital market. ber 16,1989, they have been allowed to operate such accounts again although funds on these accounts must be transferred to the Central Bank. The Cen- tral Bank is permitted to receive foreign currency deposits from abroad, provided that the holders of such deposits are national or foreign financial in- stitutions. Companies whose foreign capital par- ticipation is registered at the Central Bank continue to be authorized to open foreign exchange accounts. These accounts can be credited with funds from new foreign direct investments and reinvestments, reserve profits, consolidated surplus, profit remit- tances, and returns and gains from capital remit- tances. Deposits are remunerated at LIBO rate, and withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice, or 30 days in cases of deposits from profits or dividends and sales of investments and participating capital stocks. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with CACEX and goods can be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports may be grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) imports that are free of requirements to secure prior administrative docu- mentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued by CACEX if it conforms to a previously approved and binding annual import plan; and (3) prohibited im- ports, consisting of some 300 items, that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, or moral reasons, as well as for reasons of industrial policy. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the do- mestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public sector (the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises).4 Most imports require the prior approval of CACEX. The regulations governing the 1989 annual import programs required enterprises with more than US$100,000 in annual imports (and US$50,000 if imports were for resale) to submit to CACEX an an- nual binding budget.5 Import budgets were allowed 4Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected im- port requirements. 5Selected imports are exempted from the requirement of im- port programs, including imports to the free-trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the draw- back scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. Regulations governing the 1989 import programs were issued on November 21, 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 63 to be increased by 30 percent above 1988 levels if intended for own use (mainly intermediate goods) and by 20 percent if intended for resale (mainly consumer goods); no limit was set on imports of capital goods. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the direc- tives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to commitments under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where: (1) imports are for speculative stock-building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the na- tional economy for reasons other than those related to the balance of payments; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from countries that impede Bra- zilian exports. CACEX is authorized to levy a process- ing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depending on the prod- uct. For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half-yearly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. It is a prior condition for the granting of import certificates that importers arrange external finan- cing with specified minimum maturities.6 The limit on cash imports is US$200,000 an importer, with an additional allowance of US$200,000 for capital goods imports. Minimum financing requirements are as follows: 2 years for capital goods imports; 180 days for parts and components; and 90 days for all other import categories. CACEX is entitled to autho- rize in exceptional cases imports that do not satisfy minimum financing requirements. Certain products require the approval of the Spe- cial Secretariat for Information. For some com- modities, eligibility for exemption from import du- ties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota, which was set at US$800 million for 1988. Foreign goods imported into the Manaus free zone up to the equivalent of US$600 can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is 6Certain specified imports, including imports under the draw- back scheme and direct imports by public administrative bodies, are exempt from this requirement. closed. CACEX may approve applications for the pay- ment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment without authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and the related scheme of payments issued by the Department of Foreign Capital Super- vision and Registration (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not ex- ceed 15 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on matu- rity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be set- tled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place two working days before the maturity date. Exchange contracts for imports financed under let- ters of credit must be closed on the date of settle- ment or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain condi- tions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educa- tional and health purposes. Payments for other cur- rent invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or FIRCE, which authorize remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange without the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank in respect of personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permit- ted up to US$4,000 a person 12 years of age or older, of which US$100 is available in cash and the re- mainder in traveler's checks. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the ages of 2 and 12 years; no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special allowance of US$20,000 a year is available for the travel and representation expenses abroad of firms whose annual exports total at least ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BRAZIL US$200,000. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and ad- ministrative assistance are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the re- spective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to with- holding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent or other rate determined under agreements between Brazil and other countries for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. A supplementary income tax ap- plies, when profits paid to a foreign investor during a three-year period exceed an average of 12 percent of the foreign currency value of registered capital, at the rates of 40 percent, 50 percent, and 60 percent if the average profit paid is in the ranges of 12-15 per- cent, 16-25 percent, and above 25 percent, respec- tively. Effective July 3, 1989, remittances of profits and dividends were subject to retention at the Cen- tral Bank; the remittance of dividends was resumed in October, but dividends had to be retained at the Central Bank for 60 days. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of industrial and trade- marks, as well as for technical, scientific, admin- istrative assistance, and the like, may be deducted from the income tax liability to determine the tax- able income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts; amounts exceeding this limit are consid- ered as profits. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for determin- ing the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- actions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may freely take out domestic and for- eign bank notes. Repurchases of foreign exchange by a foreign traveler are limited to US$100 a trip or to the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit, whichever is smaller. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate (guia de exportagdo or declaragdo de exportagao) issued by CACEX to ensure compliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of several commodities require the prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are suspended. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Ex- ports of coffee are subject to an annual quota and to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sales contract is based on a price that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f .o.b.) it fixes periodi- cally for the various types of coffee, although dis- counts are also authorized. During 1988 the IBC continued to make periodic announcements of min- imum registration prices for exports of soluble cof- fee and green, ground-roasted, and decaffeinated coffee, although not necessarily changing them. Coffee exports are subject to a contribution quota at a rate that is changed regularly by the IBC depend- ing on market prices. The exporter must pay 50 per- cent of the contribution quota no later than three days after the export operation is registered and 50 percent no later than one day after the coffee is shipped. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports are sold at freely negotiated rates within the limits of the official market established by the Central Bank. Exporters of gems and other precious stones are allowed to obtain gold from the Central Bank in exchange for their export receipts. Foreign ex- change contracts covering transactions may be closed either prior to the shipment of goods or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 65 within 10 working days of shipment. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank within 180 days of shipment. The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. A number of export incentives are in operation, principally for manufactured commodities. Certain exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state value-added taxes according to the terms of contracts signed before July 1982 under the Special Program of Tax Benefits for Exporters (BEFIEX). Firms signing new BEFIEX contracts are not eligible for the credits. For a number of exports to the United States (primarily textiles, leatherware, footwear, and certain steel products), export taxes of 0.6-11.0 percent are levied. For exports of ladies' footwear to all destina- tions, a tax of 2.2 percent is levied. In 1988 export taxes at different rates were levied on a number of other products, irrespective of destination. Various financing programs for exporters, some at preferen- tial rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and other commercial banks. These fi- nancing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans un- der National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds orig- inate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (i.e., the Government, autono- mous agencies, and public enterprises). In addi- tion, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domes- tic assets may be subject to control. There is a sepa- rate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of in- come, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country with- out an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans, whether im- ported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Di- rect investment is defined as that foreign capital that constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an eco- nomic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is consid- ered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manufacturer himself or by a third party, is consid- ered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons resident abroad may make portfolio in- vestments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities indirectly by acquiring shares in a Bra- zilian "investment company" quoted on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio invest- ments are exempted from the capital gains tax. Port- folio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund— Foreign Capital." The minimum participation in this fund is US$5,000, and the money must stay in the country at least three months. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad may maintain, in Brazil, portfolios of bonds and other securities, once their constitution and admin- istration have been previously approved by the Cen- tral Bank and the securities and exchange commission. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BRAZIL the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to per- sons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calcu- lated at the average exchange rate prevailing be- tween the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. A progressive supplementary in- come tax is levied on distributions of profits and dividends to nonresidents in excess of 12 percent of registered capital and reinvestments over a three- year period; the tax is applied whether or not the profits are remitted abroad, but reinvested earnings are exempt. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks, and the Banco Na- cional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of fi- nancing working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (re- lated to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assumes responsibility for the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a minimum term of seven years, but no max- imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to man- datory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit applies to 75 per- cent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzados, and it is released as follows: one third after 60 days from the deposit date, one third after 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit applies to 100 percent of the loan pro- ceeds converted into cruzados and is released as follows: 20 percent after 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regula- tions, on June 23,1977, the Central Bank authorized voluntary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfinancial institutions of the outstanding bal- ances of their foreign loans; these deposits may be released only on the maturity dates for payment of principal, interest, and commissions. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Cen- tral Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures an- nounced on September 12, 1984, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonfinancial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indefinite period, except for (a) funds required for interest and amortization payments on the deposited loan funds, (b) transformation of such loans into direct investment, or (c) in certain special cases, upon the prior approval of the Central Bank; and (2) 80 per- cent of the balance of voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of financial loans (under Resolution No. 63), which could be released until December 31, 1984, was frozen for an indefinite period—the balance of 20 percent as well as similar deposits made after this date could be withdrawn within an initial period of 60 days, and subse- quently within 180 days from deposit dates; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, prior notice of 15 days is required. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan- titative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities con- form with minimum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1989, the Central Bank's minimum acceptable maturity was set at seven years. How- ever, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the mini- mum specified maturity, loans to the final borrower ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 67 in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt- rescheduling agreements, a similar mechanism ap- plies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected principal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1989, subject to yearly quantitative limits. Transfers of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted up to the limit of US$300,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, provided that they are made through authorized dealers with supporting documentation. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved ex- change transactions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Firms authorized by the Government may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Brazil under Decree No. 1038 of October 21, 1969. Gold mining is con- ducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8,1964. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 percent, plus FINSOCIAL fees (an income tax surcharge and a sales tax) (0.6 percent) and PIS/PASEP (Programa de Integragao Assisttencia Social de Empregados Publicos) contribu- tions (a levy on the wage bill payable by employers) (0.75 percent), due on each transaction, unless the operation takes place in the financial market when the FINSOCIAL fees are due on the profits of the firm. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at domestic prices (CMN Resolution No. 1182 of April 4, 1986). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic prices; the inter- national price is considered as a target price. Im- ports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX and authorization by the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through CACEX in respect of other products, but the Central Bank is always the alternative buyer. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 16. The external value of the Brazilian currency was devalued by 14.1 percent in U.S. dol- lar terms, and a new currency, the new cruzado (NCz$), equivalent to cruzado (Cz$) 1,000, was in- troduced. The exchange rate remained fixed until April, when a system of small adjustments at irreg- ular intervals was implemented. In mid-June, the system of daily adjustments resumed. On March 15, 1990, the new cruzado (NCz$l) was re- placed by a new monetary unit, the cruzeiro (Cr$), at the rate of NCz$l = Cr$l. June 30. The exchange rate was devalued by 10.7 percent in U.S. dollar terms. Prescription of Currency October 15. Brazil notified Poland of its intention to terminate the bilateral payments agreement. Foreign Exchange Accounts April 27. The Central Bank was permitted to re- ceive foreign currency deposits from abroad, pro- vided that the holders of such deposits are national or foreign financial institutions. November 16. Export and import companies were permitted to maintain foreign currency deposits with establishments authorized to operate in for- eign exchange, but funds on these accounts must be transferred to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments September 1. The list of prohibited imports was reduced to about 300 items (mainly for health and security reasons). Payments for Invisibles January 9. The limit on foreign exchange al- lowance for travel was increased to US$4,000 irre- spective of destination, and purchases and sales of foreign exchange were made at a freely determined exchange rate. Repurchases of foreign exchange by a foreign traveler were limited to US$100 a trip or to the dollar equivalent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit, whichever is smaller. July 1. Interest payments accrued on medium- and long-term external debt owed to nonresident commercial banks became subject to retention at the Central Bank. July 3. Remittances of profits and dividends were subject to retention at the Central Bank. October 5. Dividends of foreign companies were permitted to be remitted abroad, only after being retained at the Central Bank for 60 days. (This period was extended to 120 days, effective Jan- uary 10, 1990.) Capital April 20. Transfers abroad of the proceeds from sales of property and inheritance were permitted up ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BRAZIL to the limit of US$300,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, provided that transfers are made through an authorized dealer with supporting doc- umentation (Central Bank of Brazil Circular No. 1500). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 = F1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a com- mission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may only be arranged by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract, and they are subject to the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. Forward exchange contracts may be concluded for a period of one month and may not be renewed; for certain products, the matu- rity period of forward exchange cover may be re- newed once for a period of three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in for- eign currency, and business travel allocations in ex- cess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either di- rectly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Min- istry of Commerce and Supply. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the Operations Account Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Ni- geria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the Operations Account Area) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Af- rica are prohibited. 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BURKINA FASO Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the cred- iting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, with- out prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; for the purpose of monitoring, prior acquisition of an offi- cial import document is necessary for imports ex- ceeding an f.o.b. value of CFAF 250,000; an import license is required for the following products, subject to quota: sugar, paddy and milled rice, ce- real flour, cement, edible oils, soap, concrete- reinforcing bars, sheet metal, salt, primary cells and primary batteries, tires and inner tubes for motorcy- cles and mopeds, foam rubber for mattresses, and tiles. A prior import authorization is required for all other products. For imports subject to quota, a special commis- sion (Commission des Importations) fixes the quotas and allocates them among importers. All other im- ports may require prior authorization, depending on the circumstances. Noncommercial imports re- quire special authorization, to be obtained in ad- vance from the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Imports of the following products are subject to special controls and require the prior approval of the competent ministry: vegetable essences and ex- tracts used in medicine; ethyl alcohols for medicinal and pharmaceutical use; tobacco; mineral fuels; mineral oils and products of their distillation; liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons; fertilizers; explosives; flammable materials; military bags; holsters and cases for weapons; cartridge belts; gear slings; tank trucks; arms and ammunition; original sculpture and statuary only, in any material; and works of art, collectors' pieces, and antiques. On the other hand, imports of certain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import document requirement. The Minister of Commerce and Supply may, on the basis of criteria established by his Ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Since September 25, 1989, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles have been subject to a special import authorization. Most im- ports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per- cent, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statis- tical tax of 4 percent. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import li- censes or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the com- modities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase ex- change equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Bur- kina Faso must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equiv- alent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Larger allocations are granted, however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equiv- alent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 71 if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or ac- quired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a Foreign Ac- count in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization by the competent services of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Commerce and Supply, exports of certain products may be subject to special regulations. Exports of any product may require prior special authorization from the competent ser- vices of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, de- pending on circumstances. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipu- lated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export at- testation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements be- tween Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries requite exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization by the Minister of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BURKINA FASO Finance4 and, unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be de- clared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be re- ported to the Minister of Finance. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe par- ticipation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who estab- lishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Financial Resources to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, includ- 4Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Burkina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the an- nual interest rate does not exceed the normal mar- ket rate and that the proceeds are immediately sur- rendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably ex- pand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Ex- empt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1989 September 25. Imports of tires and inner tubes for motorcycles are subject to a special import authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the SDR. In August 1986, Bu- rundi introduced a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate was to be adjusted periodically to reflect underlying economic condi- tions. On December 29,1989, the exchange rate was FBu 232.14 = SDR 1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 174.5541 and FBu 176.3087 respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc/SDR rate and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Au- thorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates estab- lished by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that bank. An exchange fee of 3 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to four authorized banks (BANCOBU, BCB, Arab Bank for Investment, and Meridien Bank). Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) juridical per- sons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organiza- tions. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 10,000 may be withdrawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. These accounts bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident ccounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized oank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is restricted to (1) physical and juridical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad, and (2) any other physical or juridical persons autho- rized by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi; (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the pur- chase of foreign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be over- drawn. The related bank charges and commissions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 10,000 may be withdrawn upon presenta- tion of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs/ Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BURUNDI except (1) trade samples without commercial value; (2) merchandise not intended for sale whose de- clared consumer value c. & f. Bujumbura is FBu 150,000 or less; (3) travelers' personal effects; and (4) gifts and supplies for diplomatic missions and UN agencies. These licenses, used for purposes of payment and statistical control, are automatically granted. Authorization to import goods for sale using the importer's own foreign exchange is sub- ject to prior payment of customs duties in foreign exchange. Such authorization is granted to ap- proved importers in the form of licenses not involv- ing purchase of official foreign exchange. Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application also constitutes an authorization to obtain foreign exchange. With specified exceptions, authorized banks approve ap- plications for licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 10 million (c. & f. point of landirig); applica- tions for amounts in excess of FBu 10 million require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. An administrative fee amounting to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi in- surers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) are subject to preship- ment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, packaging, and price by international private agen- cies acting on behalf of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made avail- able until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 50 percent of their net annual income. The permit- ted annual transfer is 60 percent of income for ex- perts working for the Government under individual employment contracts containing a transfer clause and receiving remuneration entirely in Burundi francs. Private joint-stock companies may freely and im- mediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign direc- tors, not exceeding 50 percent of the distributed profits for industrial and agricultural enterprises and 50 percent for commercial and service enter- prises, net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income. Up to 50 percent of emoluments and divi- dends paid to foreign directors and auditors are transferable if the recipients are residents, and up to 100 percent if they are nonresidents. Requests for transfer of the balance of the profits are authorized subsequently as follows: 50 percent after two years of saving, 60 percent after four years, and 100 per- cent after five years. Profits awaiting remittance are required to be invested or saved at the Treasury, public agencies, public authorities, or financial in- stitutions that manage savings; and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, these provisions are without prejudice to any larger transfer guarantees granted by the Investment Code to enterprises that have been accorded special preferential status. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners pf new commercial, industrial, and office buildings is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income, (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued inter- est, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years. Transfer of up to 50 percent is permitted after at least three years of placement in investment or savings bonds. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. The fpreign exchange allowance for business travel purposes is US$165 a person a 4ay or its equivalent, subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a year; the daily foreign exchange allowance for travel in Africa is US$125 a person. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require a prior declaration, which must be presented for certifica- tion by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 75 months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Payments must be col- lected within 90 days of the date of export declara- tion at customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee from the Rumonge region are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Vir- tually all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi or by using a credit card. Payment in Bu- rundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on July 10, 1986, new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of ex- emptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises ac- corded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, com- panies undertaking investments that are consid- ered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Sec- retariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authori- zation. In addition, Burundi guarantees each for- eign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide work- ing capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, is valid for one year, and may be renewed. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the origi- nal amount surrendered at the official rate prevail- ing on the day of transfer. The repatriation of in- vested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. Gold All physical or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Bu- rundi francs at the average monthly rates communi- cated by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement November 22. The exchange rate was adjusted from FBu 201 = SDR 1 to FBu 221 = SDR 1; it was subsequently adjusted to FBu 232.14 = SDR 1. Imports and Import Payments February 5. The customs tariff rate on finished goods was reduced further, to 40 percent from 45 percent, while that on intermediate goods was reduced to 10 percent from 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The period after which all nonresidents' earned income, rents, profits, and dividends may be transferred was reduced to four years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 per- cent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or exceed nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of forward contract. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance in aThe CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions re- lating to all countries must be effected through au- thorized intermediaries—that is, the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export li- censes are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Transactions of accounts in CFAF by nonresidents are permitted freely; ac- counts of nonresidents in foreign currency are not permitted to be credited or debited in CFAF. Resi- dents are not permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon or abroad, and resi- dents and nonresidents are not permitted to main- tain accounts in CFAF abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and imports of tobacco from Malawi are prohibited. Some imports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are subject to quan- titative restrictions. Certain other imports require technical licenses, proving that they are for use by professionals. Certain other imports are prohibited for political, ecological, health, or safety reasons. Surcharges apply to imports from non-UDEAC countries. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 77 All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving transit goods must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import de- posits are permitted if underlying contracts stipu- late them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely, subject to declaration. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max- imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, additional allocations are granted. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and payments of tax. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on the number of dependents abroad, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cam- eroon temporarily and insured previously, pay- ments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the Operations Ac- count Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the Oper- ations Account Area may, subject to prior declara- tion, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 60 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on capital movements do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign se- curities and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 CAMEROON Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits or they do not exceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report after the fact to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroo- nian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Fi- nance within 20 days following each operation. Di- rect investments are defined as investments imply- ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance and must subse- quently be reported to him. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, and subject only to a report after the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cam- eroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the fi- nancing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not ex- ceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. Under the Investment Code promulgated in July 1984 and revised in 1985, four categories of fiscal benefits may be granted to foreign and domes- tic firms undertaking new projects in the agri- cultural, livestock, forestry, tourism, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. The Investment Code aims to promote sectors considered strategic in the de- velopment plan, to generate employment and for- eign exchange, and to diversify economic activity geographically. The type and duration of benefits vary according to, inter alia, the size of the invest- ment, the location of the enterprise, the economic activity undertaken, the factor mix, and the produc- tion techniques employed. Category A benefits, to last over a period of ten years, apply to promotional enterprises investing over the period no less than CFAF 500 million and satisfying a number of prerequisites. The benefits consist of the reduction (to 5 percent) of taxes and duties on imported goods and their exemption on domestic purchases of equipment, spare parts, and raw materials. Category B benefits, which apply to firms in priority sectors investing no less than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 79 CFAF 2.5 billion, include, in addition to those under Category A, a number of other fiscal benefits related to property transfers and amortizations for a period of five years. Category C benefits apply to small and medium-size enterprises that are at least 65 percent Cameroonian-owned, with an investment level of not more than CFAF 500 million over a ten-year period. Benefits include exemption from a number of asset and income levies. The duration of the benefits extends to 15 years for firms operating out- side the areas of highest industrial concentration. Finally, under Category D, strategic firms investing over CFAF 5 billion in 5 years may enjoy the same benefits as under Category B and are guaranteed the maintenance of the fiscal regime for 15 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also re- quired banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the ap- proval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which autho- rizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments June 15. The system of special import authoriza- tion was abolished, and the number of goods sub- jected to quantitative restrictions was reduced. Goods imported for personal or retail purposes were made subject only to declaration, unless speci- fically subjected to technical authorization, quan- titative restrictions, or prohibitions. Imports of to- bacco from Malawi were prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Export taxes on coffee and cocoa were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to main- tain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on De- cember 29,1989 was Can$l. 1578 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the mar- ket, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile prod- ucts, clothing, and footwear; certain endangered species of fauna and flora; natural gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. Import licenses are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. For some agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are tightly controlled or prohibited; the main products affected are margarine and used au- tomobiles. Pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States is being phased out over five years starting in 1989. Imports of clothing and certain textile products from low- cost sources are subject to bilateral agreements con- cluded under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) that was negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although cer- tain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Develop- ment Corporation (EDC), including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broadcasting, transportation, and ura- nium sectors, inward direct investment is governed by the Investment Canada Act. Under the provi- sions of this Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review, and direct acquisition of businesses with assets exceeding Can$5 million and indirect acquisi- tions involving assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new busi- nesses in culturally sensitive sectors may be re- viewed. Investments that are subject to review are required only to pass a test of yielding net benefit to Canada. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Although higher ratios may be autho- rized on a case-by-case basis, in general the domes- tic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Can- ada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all non-U.S. banks must 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 81 not exceed 12 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Exter- nal Affairs, under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing one ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Vio and l/4 an ounce of gold, respectively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing lk an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1989 Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement January 1. The Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement went into effect. Over a ten-year period the agreement will eliminate tariff and nontariff barriers on most goods and services, liberalize trade rules, secure market access, and reduce impedi- ments to investment. Furthermore, procedures and institutions have been provided for the administra- tion of the agreement and the resolution of disputes. In November 1989, Canada and the United States reached agreement on a proposal to accelerate re- ductions of tariffs on some 400 product items, pend- ing final approval by both governments. The major- ity of products covered by this protocol became duty free on April 1,1990, while others will be subject to a new, shorter, phased-out schedule. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Effective January 1, 1989, the customs tariffs were reduced or removed on the following textile yarns and fabrics used in apparel: finished cut corduroy; certain woven fabrics containing 1 Under the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, in- vestment review thresholds for U.S. investors are being raised to Can$150 million by 1992 for direct acquisitions and are to be phased out altogether for indirect acquisitions, while restrictions with respect to market shares and asset growth of U.S. bank subsidiaries have been liberalized. 85 percent or more camel hair; leno weave fabrics containing 50 percent or more cotton; certain tex- tured nylon yarn for hosiery; woven fabrics of cotton/wool blended yarns for shirts and blouses; certain knitted fabrics of nylon or polyester and elastometric yarn returned to Canada after having been wet-printed in the United States; certain jac- quard woven fabrics; woven fabrics not exceeding 70 grams/meter, other than lining or interlining fab- rics; and certain unfinished corduroy imported for finishing in Canada. January 1. A global import quota was imposed on yogurt, ice cream, and ice cream products. January 30. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of sour cherries from the United States following a finding of injury by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal. February 3. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of "delicious" apples from the United States following a finding of injury by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal. April 1. Provincial liquor boards began imple- menting an agreement with the EC to remove dis- criminatory markups on spirits and wine as well as to eliminate other related practices and policies that were inconsistent with the GATT Articles. The provisions of the agreement are being implemented on an MFN basis. April 14. Provisional antidumping duties imposed on imports of fabric-covered, padded wooden clothes hangers from Taiwan Province of China and the United States on March 13, 1989 were termi- nated following a finding of no injury by the Cana- dian International Trade Tribunal. April 28. Provisional antidumping duties imposed on imports of certain polyphase induction motors from Brazil, France, Japan, Sweden, Taiwan Province of China, United Kingdom, and the United States on December 29, 1988 were termi- nated following a finding of no injury by the Cana- dian International Trade Tribunal. May 8. A global import quota was imposed on broiler hatching eggs and chicks. July 1. The customs tariffs on certain tropical products were reduced provisionally with definitive tariff reductions pending the conclusion of Uruguay Round negotiations. Antidumping duties imposed on imports of brass-coated carbon steel wires from Belgium and Spain on May 13, 1981 were terminated. August 15. Provisional antidumping duties im- posed on imports of minirefrigerators from Poland on April 19,1989 were terminated following a find- ing of no injury by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 CANADA October 4. Antidumping duties imposed on Sep- tember 27, 1979 on imports of 12-gauge shotgun shells from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. were terminated. October 13. An undertaking was established with exporters of landing nets from the United States following a finding of injury by the Canadian Inter- national Trade Tribunal. October 13. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of brass replacement key blanks from Italy following a finding of injury by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal. November 30. Antidumping duties imposed on March 29,1983 on imports of certain steel products from the Federal Republic of Germany were terminated. November 30. Antidumping duties imposed on April 12, 1983 on imports of mold steel from the Federal Republic of Germany were terminated. November 30. Antidumping duties imposed on January 19, 1984 on imports of plate coils from the United States were terminated. Exports and Export Proceeds April 25. The export prohibitions on unprocessed salmon and herring were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde es- cudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 72.24 and C.V. Esc 73.35, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Department of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRE), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). All im- ports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licens- ing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000. Foreign exchange transactions, in- cluding the surrender of foreign exchange pro- ceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with An- gola and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit ac- counts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished ex- clusively with foreign exchange. Foreign enter- prises may maintain special accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign ex- change deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000. Li- censes, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Transportation, Trade, and Tourism, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are in general granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, en- titled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies in 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 CAPE VERDE accordance with medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification prior to the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance person- nel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is pro- hibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but may re-export only up to the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing and to ap- proval by the central bank, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 10,000. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean bank notes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Capital in certain foreign investments is allowed to be repatriated in equal installments within a period of less than two years. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coins or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies con- cerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, and the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions in the same ministry supervises lending abroad, issuing, advertising, or offering for sale for- eign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to For- eign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are subject neither to licensing requirements nor to quotas. Imports of firearms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Im- port declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. aThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an ex- change allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this alloca- tion, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after a traveler's return to the Central African Re- public must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. A foreigner working in the Central African Re- public is permitted to transfer his entire net salary upon presenting the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatri- ated within one month of the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authoriza- tion is obtained. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Gov- ernment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Direc- tor of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign se- curities in the Central African Republic; these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign se- curities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior ap- 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 87 proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be de- clared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting a direct in- vestment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Cen- tral African Republic of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans con- stituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CEAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) es- tablished in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equip- ment; in addition, certain enterprises receive ex- emption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C), in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission, which considers the ap- plication. If a positive decision is given by the Com- mission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments February 20. The customs tariff rates were reduced as follows: computers, to 5 percent; certain raw ma- terials, to 10 percent; and certain transportation ve- hicles, to 25 percent. All inputs used by the agri- cultural sector and products imported under grant were exempted from the customs tariffs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the account of the Treasury, for students' bursaries, and to the mem- ber countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Com- oros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries (Operations Account Area) may be made freely. However, they must be declared and be made only through authorized banks and with bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior ap- proval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also is- sues import and export authorizations for gold. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Con- aThe CFA franc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. trol Subdirectorate, which exercises this authority through instructions issued to the authorized inter- mediaries. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account Area must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs maintained by the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are repatriated to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Im- ports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the Operations Account Area and from European Communities (EC) countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area are subject to licens- ing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries judged to have ab- normal competitive advantages. In addition, the 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CHAD program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports from certain neighboring countries not belonging to the Opera- tions Account Area up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. The issu- ance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended until fur- ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. Insurance on all imports shipped to Chad of values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. This allocation is increased by the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirecto- rate may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for chil- dren under 10 years of age is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from for- eign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports to non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export pro- ceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surren- dered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if re- ceived in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coins) and other foreign means of pay- ment. Foreign bank notes and coins in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. All ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 91 foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresi- dents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy en- terprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct in- vestments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, with an interest rate not higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans di- rectly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a spec- ified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code published on De- cember 9,1987, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under cer- tain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on spec- ified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for four categories of enterprises which would receive various forms of preferential treatment, including certain tax and other privileges. Requests for prefer- ential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af- ter an opinion has been given by this Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CHAD and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold un- worked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Fi- nance and by the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as the visa of the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Ex- ports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). The official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar, at a rate adjusted at daily intervals according to a schedule established on the basis of the domestic rate of inflation during the previous month, less the estimated world rate of inflation. On December 29, 1989, the official ex- change rate was Ch$282.64 per US$1. The Central Bank carries out its foreign exchange transactions within margins of 5 percent above and below the official exhange rate. Foreign exchange dealers, the Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities are free to trade in foreign exchange at any price. As a result, the Central Bank intervenes in the foreign exchange market when the observed market rate reaches the upper or lower limit. Commercial banks are permitted to provide a for- ward market for foreign exchange with a maturity of between 15 and 180 days. On maturity, contracts are settled in pesos on the basis of the difference be- tween the market rate and the contract rate. Con- tract rates are determined freely without interven- tion by the Central Bank. The regulations impose limits on banks' gross forward purchases and on their net exposure, both overall and in individual currencies. The Central Bank provides forward cover against exchange risk in the form of currency swaps. The maturity periods of forward transac- tions range from 5 days to 720 days. Direct transac- tions in foreign exchange among private parties can take place at freely negotiated exchange rates, pro- vided that they are occasional and unpublicized. Commissions on exchange transactions are subject to a 16 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso with other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank has provided an exchange sub- sidy on the following service payments on some debts contracted prior to August 6, 1982 (the origi- nal amount of the debt was about US$8 billion): (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad whose obligations were registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes in- dexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years and carrying a 3 percent rate of interest. On December 29,1989, the difference between the offi- cial rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$66.1 per US$1. As of this date, only those debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985 had access to this subsidized rate. Administration of Control The Council of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervi- sion of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with the Domini- can Republic must be made through clearing ac- counts established under a reciprocal credit agree- ment. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free, with the exception of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (known as Informe de Importation) issued by the Cen- tral Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions is not permit- ted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Until January 5, 1990, imports valued at more than US$50,000 were subject to a 120-day minimum financing requirement. Importers may purchase spot exchange before the payment date and place a deposit in foreign exchange at the Central Bank in anticipation of payment. Imports on deferred pay- ment terms (cobertura diferida) —that is, on credit terms exceeding 360 days—require prior authpriza- tion of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Vir- tually all imports are subject to a registration tax of 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 CHILE up to 3 percent of value, which is offset against the applicable import duty. Imports are subject to a uniform 15 percent tariff rate, with some excep- tions. Exceptions include tariffs bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and tariffs negotiated with LAIA countries. A few items are exempted from the general tariff regime. Imports of some dairy products, such as condensed and powdered milk, butter, and cheese, are subject to specific duties and to a customs valuation regime based on European Communities (EC) internal prices for these products. Imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involv- ing price bands within which the after-duty price has to remain. In addition, tariff duties or sur- charges are applied, on a temporary basis, to im- ports of certain products that are subsidized in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a trip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$3,000 a trip to other countries. For travel by land to neigh- boring destinations, 20 percent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange, and the rest, in money orders. Higher amounts for travel other than tourism may be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate justification. Residents may purchase up to US$200 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines, books, and pension payments, subject to presenta- tion of appropriate documents. Higher amounts may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate justification. Insur- ance activities within the country are limited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All for- eign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise the Director of Foreign Trade of the Central Bank immediately (the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper). Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Ex- porters are allowed to retain from 2 percent to 5 per- cent of export proceeds in a special Foreign Ex- change Account, but the cumulative deposits in any such account during a 12-month period may not exceed US$500,000. Receipts from exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be depos- ited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment and surrendered within 10 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment if they are held as swaps or foreign exchange deposits with resident banks. Extension of repatriation periods may be granted for certain products. As a means of expediting the operation of the drawback system in respect of small export values, exporters of eligible products (approximately 6 per- cent of the country's annual exports) have an option of taking a subsidy in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme; alter- natively, such exporters may avail themselves of the provisions of Decree No. 409, under which they may draw back their payments of duties on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1983 and 1984 were equal to or less than US$2.5 million. The list of eligible products is reviewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to ad- justment. At the end of December 1989, this sub- sidy was equal to 10 percent of the net export value of sales for those exporters of products whose an- nual export value was less than or equal to US$9.6 million and 5 percent for those exporters of products whose annual export value was between US$9.6 million and US$14.4 million. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concern- ing the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remittances, and the surplus foreign ex- change from travel allocations. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most out- flows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 95 requires prior approval by the Central Bank; the exceptions to this regulation are lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign correspondents, and short-term loans for domestic relending. Short- term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Cen- tral Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings even if they do not require central bank approval. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17,1977 stipulates, inter alia, that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (criditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporate, national or foreign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. There is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing. Repatriation nor- mally is allowed only in accordance with the amor- tization schedule established at the time of registra- tion. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and out- flow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7,1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract containing undertakings that the investment program will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be ap- proved by the Executive Secretary of the Commit- tee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agree- ments in this regard may be included in the above- mentioned investment contract. Capital may be re- patriated after three years unless specified other- wise in the investment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed annual 49.5 percent total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to a tax system similar to that which is applied to domestic corporations. (Ac- cording to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effective tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under Presidential Decree; rights and responsibilities under such a Decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments abroad at a discount as well as their repatriation. Eligible instruments are defined as external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, the debtor of which may be either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Develop- ment Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institution. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct investment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval of the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the inter- mediation of a financial institution; special regula- tions apply to repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remittance rights) by residents and non- residents of debt purchased at a discount abroad with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guar- anteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely un- dertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The upper and lower limits in the foreign exchange market that would trigger central bank intervention were widened from ±3 percent on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 CHILE either side of the official rate to ± 5 percent on either side of the official rate. Administration of Control October 10. Law No. 18.840, making the Central Bank an autonomous body, was enacted. Imports and Import Payments June 28. Imports valued at less than US$50,000 were exempted from the 120-day minimum financ- ing requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its unit is the yuan. Since Jan- uary 1, 1986, China has followed an exchange ar- rangement whereby the exchange rate for the ren- minbi is based on developments in the balance of payments and in costs and exchange rates of China's major competitors, although from July 5, 1986 until December 15,1989, the exchange rate for the renminbi remained unchanged at Y 3.72 per US$1. On December 15, 1989, it was announced that the renminbi would be depreciated by 21.2 per- cent, effective December 16. The exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 20 other currencies are pub- lished on a daily basis by the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC);1 on December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 4.71 and Y 4.73, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transac- tions are changed whenever the calculated rate di- verges from the previously published rate by be- tween 0.5 percent and 1 percent. Since Novem- ber 1986, Chinese enterprises in the four economic zones of Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai, and foreign investment corporations have been per- mitted to transact foreign exchange in foreign ex- change swap centers at rates mutually agreed on between buyers and sellers under the supervision of the SAEC. In early 1988, all domestic entities that are allowed to retain foreign exchange earnings were granted permission to trade in the swap cen- ters, and by October 1988, 80 such centers were established. Initially, a relatively small volume of transactions took place in these markets, but the volume has increased substantially since access to the centers was expanded. The renminbi depreci- ated in these markets from an average of Y 5.25 per US$1 in the first quarter of 1987 to Y 6.7 per US$1 in the first half of 1989, but subsequently appreciated to Y 5.4 per US$1 by December 1989. The SAEC must approve the use of foreign ex- change purchased in the swap centers, and in Feb- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. ruary 1989, regulations were issued specifying the priority uses of foreign exchange. Imports of inputs for the agricultural sector, textiles, and tech- nologically advanced and light industries were given priority, while purchases of foreign exchange for imports of a wide range of consumer goods, including clothing and electronic products, were prohibited. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 cur- rencies.2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are permitted only in connection with an underlying trade transaction. When banks sell renminbi for- ward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except on the deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Japanese yen, and Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a further six months, but not for longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the curren- cies concerned. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises cen- tral bank functions and control over foreign ex- change; and the SAEC, as a government institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations and for control- ling all foreign exchange transactions in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub- bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, au- tonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is the specialized foreign ex- change bank of the People's Republic of China. Other banks and financial institutions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle desig- nated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than 100 institutions are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. The China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions con- nected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and financial institutions may hold for- eign exchange but generally may not deal in it or 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA conduct arbitrage operations. Special exchange con- trol measures are applied to special economic zones, the 14 designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions at the more appre- ciated administered exchange rate are generally conducted in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has responsibility for foreign ex- change reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recommended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total external borrowing, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) prepares estimates for those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade, foreign loans, and China's external assistance program; the foreign exchange budgets of other government depart- ments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transactions, receipts from overseas Chinese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordinated and balanced by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and is submitted to the State Council for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is responsible for supervising the imple- mentation of the foreign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan includes transactions with countries with which China maintains bilat- eral payments agreements.3 The annual plan is di- vided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and SPC review the implementa- tion of the plan and determine whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by com- modity. Unexpected events, such as changes in for- eign trade policies, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are expressed in Swiss francs, and those with Albania and Cuba, in U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate and settled through bilateral payments ar- 3China maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with the following Fund members: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Poland, and Romania. It also maintains operative bilateral pay- ments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. rangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convert- ible currencies, except for part of such transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania and all transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accor- dance with the procedures set forth in those agree- ments. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by terms agreed under the respective contracts. Except for the arrangement with the Islamic Re- public of Iran, the agreements are designed to en- sure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities that cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. The agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran provides such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also includes nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. Joint ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. Foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the desig- nated transaction. The BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Foreign banks in the special economic zones may lend in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from joint-venture companies. Individuals may open resident foreign currency accounts at the BOC and may withdraw funds from such accounts in the form of foreign currency. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with the Re- public of Korea and South Africa is prohibited. 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of for- eign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Foreign embassies are also included. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 99 The primary responsibility for formulating for- eign trade policies and ensuring the implementa- tion of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFERT, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports;5 following the reform in the exchange and trade sys- tem effected in early 1985, MOFERT no longer en- gages in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily enterprise management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other en- tities licensed by MOFERT to conduct foreign trade. In early 1988, control over FTCs was decentralized when local branches of most of these corporations were made independent entities accountable to lo- cal government authorities and responsible for their own profits and losses under the contract responsi- bility system. Application of the agency system, under which companies conduct foreign trade as agents on a commission basis, was also expanded; a larger number of domestic enterprises were given the authority to export their products directly or to import needed materials directly. A limited number of essential import commodities continue to be han- dled by one of the 14 national foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, other than registered foreign trade corporations, need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with the authori- zation of MOFERT and a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. Proceeds of certain exports (joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned com- panies) may be retained in a foreign exchange ac- count with the BOC or an authorized bank. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the BOC, unless specific exception is granted by the SAEC, and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in compensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas6 in the SAEC or its sub-bureaus by localities and enter- prises in accordance with state regulations. The per- centage of export earnings that can be retained varies with the enterprise. Typically, domestic en- terprises are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings up to a target amount of 5MoFERT itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts— commissions on foreign economic relations and trade (COFERT). 6A retention quota constitutes a right to purchase foreign exchange in the future for renminbi. such earnings established for each enterprise in ne- gotiations with the Central Government; the re- mainder is remitted to the Central Government. In turn, a portion of the foreign exchange retained by the enterprises has to be shared with local govern- ments. This portion is usually 12Vz percent, but it can vary depending on agreements between the local authorities and individual enterprises. Enter- prises are generally allowed to retain a major share of foreign exchange earnings in excess of targeted amounts. Foreign direct investment enterprises re- tain all of their foreign exchange earnings. The number of trading companies and other en- terprises engaged in foreign trade expanded rapidly in 1988. Many of the new firms lacked the necessary expertise to engage in foreign trade, and in Feb- ruary 1989, the State Council established guidelines for the rationalization of foreign trade companies. Trade in certain products was to be limited to government-designated trade corporations; provin- cial and local government regulation of local FTCs was to be improved; and companies with poor oper- ating results or engaged in disorderly operations were to be closed or merged with other trading companies. In early 1988, retention quotas for domestic enter- prises in several industrial sectors (light industry, arts and crafts, clothing, and machinery) and in some regions (Hainan Island and the special eco- nomic zones) were raised. Retention quotas for these enterprises vary with the degree of processing of the goods exported up to 100 percent. Retention quotas can be traded in the foreign exchange swap centers or used for imports. The BOC provides for- eign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Residents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports consist of those included in the annual import plan and those outside of the plan. The foreign trade plan is drawn up by MOFERT in con- junction with the SPC. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous re- gions, which, in turn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by MOFERT and the SPC at national foreign trade plan- ning conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan. Priority is given ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domestically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories—restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.7 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.8 Import licensing serves to limit, and in some cases, prohibit imports of restricted goods that are included in the annual plan. Imports of seven as- sembly lines on the restricted list (for television sets, household refrigerators, household washing ma- chines, radio-cassette recorders, room air condi- tioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are effectively banned through the licensing system; import of these lines requires approval by the State Economic Commission, which currently does not grant approval. Apart from imports that are restricted through the licensing system, a few types of imports are explicitly banned, such as all secondhand gar- ments. Imports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as is the export of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare ani- mals, seeds and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the import and export of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chi- nese currency, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detri- mental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and ex- ports require prior inspection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of spec- ified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Provi- sional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: minimum and gen- eral. The minimum tariff rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has 7At the end of 1989, there were 46 goods on the restricted list, including 23 kinds of assembly lines counted as one item. 8In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis. The coverage of the import plan also changes. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. concluded trade treaties or agreements with re- ciprocal favorable tariff clauses therein9; the general tariff rates apply to imports originating in the coun- tries with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tar- iff clauses. The duties are calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imported goods. Excluding goods that are exempt from duties, goods in the general tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 8 percent to 180 percent, and goods in the minimum tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 3 percent to 150 percent. In addition to the import duties mentioned above, a regulatory tax on imports is applied to 15 selected products; the regulatory tax rates range from 20 percent to 80 percent. Imports into Tibet through border trade with the neighboring countries are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The tariff, however, applies to goods imported directly for use in Tibet only. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese tariff. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated in- dustrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applied to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for further processing are exempted from both customs duties and commer- cial taxes, provided that the products are exported 9These countries are as follows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Benin, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Re- public, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Western Hemisphere: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Burma, Cyrpus, Iraq, Jordan, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Sin- gapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nor- way, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 102 within a specified period. Most imports and exports by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Special economic zones have been set up in Shan- tou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Economic and technological development areas have been es- tablished in 14 designated coastal cities. Foreigners, overseas Chinese, and Chinese from the Hong Kong and Macao regions are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas. Raw mate- rials, equipment, and machinery or parts and com- ponents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties and the con- solidated industrial and commercial tax. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. The num- ber of items subject to export licensing require- ments was reduced from 221 to 159 in July 1988, but licensing requirements were imposed on 14 addi- tional products in late 1988 and in 1989. Exports of some products are prohibited. In December 1988 the number of items whose exportation is banned was raised from 4 to 10. In addition, exports of 28 products are subject to duties. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earn- ings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks, except for enterprises with foreign investment and some foreign trade sectors designated as experimental areas for trade reforms. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open an account in the BOC or an authorized bank. Similarly, foreign ex- change owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before becoming residents may be retained. Such retained foreign exchange may be sold to or remit- ted through the BOC, or taken out of China against certification by the BOC. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad, but individuals may retain such earnings according to prevailing regulations. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remit- tances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,10 may remit their salaries and other income earned in China, after payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and approval by the relevant local au- thorities. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the ap- proval of the local branch of the SAEC and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, but only if the profits have been generated in areas other than the special economic zones and the economic and technologi- cal development areas in the 14 selected coastal cities. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remit- tances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presentation of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign ex- change to cover expenses for transport and subsis- tence; any surplus must be repatriated and surren- dered to the BOC. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is nor- mally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but the amount of proceeds from the sale of assets in China that may be remitted is limited. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by non- residents may be converted into either renminbi or foreign exchange certificates (FECs) denominated in renminbi. Foreign exchange certificates can be used by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents, for purchasing airline tickets and train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form is- sued by customs. The import and export of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. Foreign exchange certifi- cates may be imported, but their export is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they 10Including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA have been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. In October 1989, the Govern- ment introduced limits on the reconversion of un- used FECs into foreign currency. Foreign organiza- tions resident in China are no longer allowed to reconvert FECs into foreign currency. Nonresidents and resident foreigners in China are permitted to reconvert only up to 50 percent of original pur- chases of FECs when they leave China upon presen- tation of documented FEC purchases. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is ap- plied for foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the old urban areas of the 14 coastal cities. Joint ventures are required to be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified either as "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.11 Plan borrowing includes borrowing by the Central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agri- culture, Animal Husbandry and Forestry, and MOFERT and enterprises under the control of MOFERT) from international organizations and bilat- eral sources; borrowing by CITIC and other invest- ment and trust companies (ITICS) (mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad) to finance plan projects; borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; and borrowing by provincial governments (either directly or through the BOC) for large projects in- cluded in provincial governments' annual plans. Nonplan borrowing includes borrowing by the BOC for purposes other than projects included in the annual plan (this includes interbank loans and for- eign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad), foreign exchange deposit taking by other financial institutions, short-term trade credits, borrowing by joint-venture companies and nThe SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. The SAEC permits the BOC and other financial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for un- dertaking commercial borrowing to borrow up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by the SAEC. In August 1987, comprehensive regulations were issued requiring aU foreign borrowing to be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to meet their debt-service obligations and will be subject to other penalties. 100 percent foreign-owned companies, all borrow- ing at the provincial level to finance small projects, lease financing, and borrowing from offshore Chi- nese enterprises (mainly in Hong Kong). The total amount of external borrowing for a spec- ified future period and its split between conces- sional and nonconcessional sources is approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the an- nual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agencies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFERT, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. Pro- posals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFERT, recom- mends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Economic Commission. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments re- quire the sanction of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international develop- ment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Minis- try); intergovernmental loans are the responsibility of MOFERT, and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the PBC. Gov- ernment departments, local governments, and en- terprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICS, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Foreign borrowing in the form of de- ferred payments requires the approval of MOFERT. Resident organizations may not issue securities for foreign exchange unless approved by the PBC. According to regulations issued in February 1989, all commercial borrowing abroad (including bond issues) for nonplan purposes requires prior PBC approval. Commercial borrowing is to be channeled through one of ten domestic entities—-the Bank of China, the Communications Bank of China, the China Investment Bank, the China International Trust and Investment Corporation, and the six re- gional international trust and investment com- panies. The short-term external debt of each institu- tion is to be used only for working capital purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 103 All foreign direct investment projects are in prin- ciple subject to the approval of MOFERT. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct in- vestment projects up to specified amounts. The pol- icy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and 100 percent foreign-owned companies are required to balance their foreign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to the SAEC.12 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploi- tation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the for- eign exchange account of the joint venture. Alter- natively, the foreign investor may apply for repay- ment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and the 14 coastal cities and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other specified resources,13 are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, which is waived for joint ventures in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas of the 14 coastal cities. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profit-making years and be al- lowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be economically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a further 15-30 percent reduction in in- come tax for the following ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in 12To help individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit in the foreign exchange swap centers. 13The special tax rate for these firms is 15 percent. In addition, new joint ventures scheduled to operate for ten years or more may, inter alia, be exempted from taxation in the first and second profit-making years. China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations that have establishments in China engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business op- erations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks originating in countries in which in- come from interest on deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are corre- spondingly exempt from this Chinese tax. For inter- est income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit agreements by for- eign business without establishments in China, trade agreements, and leasing agreements signed by them with Chinese companies and enterprises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half the normal rate) during the validity of the aforesaid agree- ments; interest earnings from export credits are en- titled to income tax exemption. For fees collected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technol- ogy provided by them in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communica- tions, transport, environmental protection, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, with the approval of the tax authorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent, or be waived if the technology is advanced and is pro- vided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese dip- lomatic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in the Hong Kong and Macao regions, are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement February 1. Regulations were issued governing the use of foreign exchange obtained in foreign ex- change swap centers. Imports of inputs for the agri- cultural sector, textiles, and for technologically ad- vanced and light industries were given priority. Purchases of foreign exchange for a wide range of consumer products are prohibited. March 1. The SAEC issued regulations governing domestic sales in foreign currency by foreign invest- ment corporations. Such corporations are permitted to sell in China for foreign exchange provided that the sales involve purchases under the Govern- ment's annual import plan, sales in Special Eco- nomic Zones and other promotional areas, and sales of import substitutes. December 14. The administered rate of the ren- minbi was adjusted from Y 3.72 per US$1 to Y 4.72 per US$1, effective December 16. Imports and Exports January 1. Exports of the following products were prohibited: copper and copper-based alloys; alumi- num and aluminum-based alloys; platinum; yellow phosphorous; and nickel and nickel-based alloys and products. In addition, exports of 12 other com- modities were restricted: polypropylene, chro- mium ore, molybdenum ore, metallic magnesium, metallic manganese, abs resin, polystyrene, meth- ylbenzene, xylene, ferrochrome, ferromanganese, and rubber. February 4. Import duties on photographic paper and chemicals, certain kinds of audio recording equipment, and audio and video tapes were raised to 80-100 percent from 50-SO percent. February 20. The State Council issued guidelines on rationalization of the foreign trade system. Ac- cording to these guidelines, foreign trade in certain products is to be limited to government-designated trading companies, and local trading companies are to be subject to greater regulation by provincial and local governments. March 16. Import duties on certain kinds of re- frigerators were raised to 40-100 percent from 40 percent. August 11. Import duties on coffee were raised to 40-100 percent from 20-60 percent, and import du- ties and other taxes on vacuum cleaners and video games were raised to 140-150 percent from 60- 80 percent. An export duty of 50 percent was intro- duced on lead and zinc ores and concentrates. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles October 30. Regulations were issued regarding the convertibility of foreign exchange certificates (FECs). Foreign organizations in China will no longer be able to exchange FECs for foreign cur- rency. Non-Chinese nationals who are residents in China also will not be permitted to exchange FECs for foreign currency except when they are leaving China permanently, and reconversion will be re- stricted to 50 percent of their documented pur- chases of FECs. Tourists leaving China will be al- lowed to reconvert unused FECs into foreign currency only up to 50 percent of their original purchases. Capital February 14. The State Council issued regulations that all foreign commercial borrowing required the approval of the PBC. All commercial borrowing is to be channeled through one of ten domestic entities—the Bank of China, the Communications Bank of China, the China International Trust and Investment Corporation, the China Investment Bank, and six regional international trust and in- vestment corporations. The short-term debt of each entity may not exceed 20 percent of the entity's total debt, and short-term borrowing is to be used only for working capital purposes. March 6. The SAEC announced procedures gov- erning Chinese direct investment abroad. Such in- vestments would require government and SAEC approval, a deposit of 5 percent of the investment to secure repatriation of dividends and other income from the investment, and repatriation of earnings within six months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The Colombian authorities follow a policy of adjust- ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall bal- ance of payments performance. Exchange sur- render and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market and in the stock exchange at the official rate. In the case of export proceeds, exporters have the option of either immediate conversion or acquisition of exchange certificates with a maturity of 90 days. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official rate (middle) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was Col$433.92 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates, which result from (1) a 6.5 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates (certificados de reembolso tributario or CERTs) granted at three dif- ferent percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of a remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments; and (4) an 85 per- cent advance exchange license deposit for import payments. The peso equivalent of the Govern- ment's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Gov- ernment purchases exchange for all public debt pay- ments and other expenditures included in the na- tional budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (tttulos canjeables por cer- tificados de cambio) to government enterprises in the oil sector and to public sector recipients of external loans in accordance with the terms of Resolution 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas (selling rate only), Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 20/1986 of the Monetary Board. These warrants, which are usually expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 24 months, and in some cases may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of re- purchase. Warrants expressed in U.S. dollars bear interest at an interest rate equal to that of the exter- nal loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day be- fore the certificate is issued if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 24 months cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank of the Republic at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twenty-fourth month. All foreign exchange debts registered in the Ex- change Office in accordance with Decree-Law 444 of 1967, Articles 128,131,132, and 139 are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange risks. (Resolu- tions 5/88 and 11/89 of the Monetary Board.) All future contracts of foreign exchange must be regis- tered in the Exchange Office, and exchange rate guarantees are allowed to be provided only for the U.S. dollar against most of the other convertible currencies. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!N- COMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transac- tions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. All payments for study purposes require prior authorization by the Colombian In- stitute for International Education (!CETEX). The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the deliv- ery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 COLOMBIA Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Cof- fee Growers. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, IN- COMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export policy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and ad- ministers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also sub- ject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of curren- cies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and re- ceipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Settlements for com- mercial transactions with countries with which Co- lombia has reciprocal credit agreements must be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agreements. Settlements be- tween Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Hungary, Spain, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Banks must report transac- tions through these accounts to the Bank of the Republic and the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to one of the following re- gimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring only registration with INCOMEX; (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license; (3) goods included in the prohibited import list; and (4) goods requiring special import-export arrangements for their importation. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchase of official foreign exchange, in- cluding imports of machinery and equipment, fi- nanced by international credit institutions. Non- reimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether lo- cal substitutes are available. Import licenses for cer- tain items are restricted and are not normally is- sued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except for imports of agri- cultural and livestock products, for which the valid- ity period is three months. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be ex- tended for only two successive three-month peri- ods* All imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500 are subject to registration with INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceed- ing US$10,000 are not subject to prior registration. The charge for import registration is Col$8,500. An advance exchange license deposit (consignation) has to be lodged at the official rate for exchange certifi- cates at least 23 calendar days prior to an application for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 85 percent of the value of the exchange license. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 107 subject to prior approval of Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is a surtax of 18 percent, of which 10.4 percent goes to the Treasury, 6 percent to the Export Promotion Fund, 0.8 percent to the Institute for Industrial Promotion, and 0.8 percent to the Agrarian Credit Bank. Exempt from this tax are temporary imports; imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for CORFERIAS (Interna- tional Commerce Fair of Bogota), for the free port of San Andres y Providencia, or effected through the Port of Leticia. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight payments, a freight company must, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 85 percent of payment value. Payments for more than 80 percent of total import or export freight are allowed only if it can be estab- lished that freight costs payable in local currency amounted to less than 20 percent of total cost. Ser- vices may be imported through special import- export arrangements. Most payments for invisibles, including banking commissions, international air travel, and expenses incurred in the export of noncoffee products, are subject to exchange licenses. Banks may transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles, including medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly al- lowances of students studying abroad with govern- ment support, and for the service of registered for- eign loans taken up by the financial sector. Foreign exchange purchases for travel are limited to the equivalent of US$90 a day, up to US$1,500 a year, for those under 12 years of age; US$180 a day, up to US$3,000 a year, for those over 12 years of age; and up to US$250 a day, within a limit of US$12,500 a year, for "special" travelers (defined as those travel- ing for reasons that are of particular usefulness in the economic and social development of the country). Remittances abroad for study purposes are sub- ject to the following limits: (1) US$300 for travel; (2) US$400 for books and study material; (3) US$400 to cover thesis fees; (4) up to US$500 monthly for living expenses; (5) up to US$250 monthly for ex- penses incurred by a spouse if course work extends beyond six months; and (6) a onetime US$500 al- lowance for unforeseen expenditures. Registration fees for courses approved by ICETEX, as well as health and accident insurance for students, are not subject to limits. Requests for foreign exchange for study purposes have to be approved by ICETEX. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign inves- tors is normally limited to 25 percent of the regis- tered direct investment a year. Profits beyond such a limit may be counted toward increasing the capital base. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leav- ing the country, purchase foreign currency of up to US$100 on presentation of their passports. A remit- tance tax of 12 percent is applicable to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 per- cent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required, but prior applica- tion for registration is necessary for all exports ex- cept samples and Colombian products in noncom- mercial quantities. INCOMEX may impose temporary restrictions on exports of certain products in case of domestic supply shortage. When registering an ex- port transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but with- out depositing any funds) or a bank guarantee cor- responding to 5 percent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate; for petroleum and coffee exports, the requirements are 25 percent and 100 percent, respectively, of the projected value of production. The periods for sur- rendering export proceeds are normally as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days of the date of registra- tion of the export (180 days for instant coffee); and (2) for other goods, generally within 6 months of registration. However, longer time periods for the surrender of proceeds are permitted for exports to Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Venezuela; goods sold on a commission basis; books, magazines, and other printed matter (18 months); and capital goods (2 years). The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All ex- change proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, with the exception of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 COLOMBIA export proceeds of ECOPETROL, Federation National de Cafeteros, and exports of minerals associated with state enterprises, which are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and a number of other products may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the f .o .b. value surren- dered, converted at the Ministry of Finance ex- change rate. Three rates—5 percent, 9 percent, and 12 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; for the export pro- ceeds of the Vallejo Plan or goods produced in the free zones of the country, the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly opera- tions. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. The sur- render of foreign currency earned by exporters can, as an option, be effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates (of 90 days' matu- rity), which are negotiable on the stock exchange. Exports of coffee are subject to the following reg- ulations: (1) a minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed on the basis of the international market prices; (2) exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 6.5 percent ad valorem, of which 4.0 per- cent is paid to the National Coffee Fund, and the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury; (3) exporters must either surrender without pay- ment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equiv- alent of 5 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent; (4) exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax), which must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos; and (5) a committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, ex- pressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange cer- tificates, which can be sold on the stock exchange. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is an 85 percent advance payment deposit on all out- flows, which must be lodged before application can be made for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new for- eign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,2 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously regis- tered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Direct foreign investment regulations in Colom- bia are governed by Decree No. 444 of 1967 and Decree No. 1265 of July 10, 1987, and are in accor- dance with the provisions of Decision No. 220 of the Cartagena Agreement, which governs foreign in- vestment within the member countries of the An- dean Pact. Foreign capital participation in the finan- cial sector up to 49 percent is permitted under Law No. 74 of December 1989. Foreign capital participa- tion exceeding 50 percent is permitted in the institu- tions that receive support from the Guarantee Fund (Fondo de Garantfas) also under Law No. 74. The National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) can legislate special conditions affecting foreign investment so as to overrule the above- mentioned provisions, including Resolutions 29 and 44 of CONPES. Foreign investment can amount to 100 percent of ownership. If the enterprise is en- titled to the benefits under the provisions of the Cartagena Agreement, however, foreign invest- ment is required to become 51 percent Colombian- owned by the thirtieth year after its registration, with the exception of investment in enterprises that satisfy one of the following conditions: (1) at least 25 percent of their production is exported; or (2) at least 50 percent of their material inputs are of Co- lombian origin. Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for pur- poses of fulfilling the Colombian ownership re- quirement, provided that profit and capital remit- tances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Capital imports require prior approval by the Na- tional Planning Department, with the exception of capital for the petroleum industry, which requires 2Loans by financial entities for the import of goods also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange li- cense covering the relevant import transaction. Such loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 109 approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and capital for mineral exploration other than petro- leum, which requires approval by the National Plan- ning Department and the recommendation of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Foreign direct invest- ment is prohibited in public services, all branches of communication, television, film distribution and showing, internal passenger transport (except tour- ism), and residential construction. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian majority participation, unless (1) they have received support from the Guaranteed Fund (Fondos de Garantias); (2) the subscription of new shares or contracting of debt instruments among national investors is not possible; (3) foreigners would thereby be deprived of their present property share in any financial in- stitution; or (4) local authorities consider that the potential contribution in terms of capital, technol- ogy, and competitiveness for the sector justifies a majority foreign participation. New foreign direct investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is permitted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact on the basis of reciprocal treatment. The purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Banking Superintendent. Capital registration with the Exchange Office en- titles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. The transfer of profits is limited to 25 percent of registered direct investment with certain exceptions. Profit remit- tances from direct investment in internal explora- tion may be limited to a percentage of dollar- denominated capital determined by adding 25 points to the average New York prime interest rate prevailing in the year of registration of the foreign investment transaction, as estimated by the Bank of the Republic. Other special regimes are applicable to (1) the earthquake-hit area of Popayan, which allow profit remittances up to 1996 on invested capi- tal in a percentage equivalent to 25 percent above the average New York prime interest rate; and (2) bordering regions, which allow transfer of profits up to 29 percent of the dollar-denominated investment. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms are generally subject to a mini- mum maturity of five years with two years of grace and an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIBOR. Such loans are nor- mally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide im- port financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for governmental entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Govern- ment, or guaranteed by the Government, the fol- lowing are also required: prior authorization by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board; prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval by the President of the Re- public. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of a placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Foreign capital in- vested in these funds can be repatriated only five years after registration with the Exchange Office, and following the third year of their creation, at least 60 percent of the assets of the funds must be in- vested in stock or in convertible debt instruments. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to en- able the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they also require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties, but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and require prior authorization of the National Planning Board and the Exchange Office. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by export firms, transportation companies, and other specified entities, upon prior authoriza- tion of the Exchange Office. A ceiling equivalent to 8 percent of their total foreign liabilities is applied on the foreign currency deposits that may be held by domestic financial institutions. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Co- lombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London, Zurich, and New York markets on the day preceding the domestic gold purchase plus 3 percent. The Bank of the Republic levies an ad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 COLOMBIA valorem tax of 3 percent on the total payment re- ceived by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. June 21. The customs tariff nomenclature was amended, whereby 11 tariff positions were created and the tariffs for 206 positions, covering mostly intermediate goods, were reduced considerably. August 1. Twelve tariff positions for imports from member countries of the Andean Group were trans- ferred to the freely importable goods list, and four tariff positions were moved to the category of goods subject to prior license. Exports and Export Proceeds August 3. The percentage that the coffee exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) or pay to the National Federation of Coffee Growers was reduced from 35 percent to 5 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera). Changes During 1989 Capital Prescription of Currency June 27. The reciprocal credit arrangement with the member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) expired. November 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. The bilateral pay- ments agreement with Hungary was modified to a reciprocal payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments April 18. The lists of freely importable goods and of goods subject to prior licensing requirements were modified. May 31. The rate of the advance exchange license deposit was reduced from 95 percent to 85 percent of the value of the exchange license. December 2. A new law (Law No. 74) governing direct foreign investments in the financial sector was promulgated. The law will permit foreign par- ticipation of up to 49 percent in entities in the finan- cial sector, including commercial banks, financial corporations, insurance companies, and trade fi- nancing companies. The new law will also permit foreign majority participation in the institutions that receive support from the Guaranteed Fund (Fondos de Garantias). December 22. A new law (Law No. 78) permitting the establishment of foreign investment funds was promulgated. With the approval of the National Planning Board, shares of such funds may be placed in the stock exchange. Invested funds can be re- patriated five years after registration with the Ex- change Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an autho- rized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Min- 1 Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires Ill istry of Economy and Finance. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are sub- ject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are maximum allocations, such ap- provals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 125,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The maximum that may be allocated in bank notes is CF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, traveler's checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros upon the request of the autho- rized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 COMOROS Exports and Export Proceeds Capital All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of license. Most exports to other coun- tries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to for- eign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coins. All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the curren- cies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of these countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are sub- ject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a mini- mum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this com- mission are payments of the state, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Con- golese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agree- ment with the Congo. Most payments to other for- eign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office, 0.50 percent; these commissions are subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. A commis- sion of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and invest- JThe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea. ment transactions with all foreign countries, how- ever, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through au- thorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. With the exception of 13 products, the system of import li- censes has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations (Decree No. 88/414, May 28, 1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaration or a license. An indicative annual import program dis- tinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the Cen- tral African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) European Communities (EC) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this pro- gram require licenses and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EC countries 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and they require the visa of the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Re- lations. The approved import license entitles im- porters to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized inter- mediary; those to other foreign countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is pro- hibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Opera- tions Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the excep- tions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du Cafe et du Cacao and Office des Cultures Vivrieres) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Of- fice Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relat- ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 115 capital transactions are subject to prior authoriza- tion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer, between nonresi- dents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. and the Budget. However, loans contracted by regis- tered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign curren- cies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29,1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is re- quired. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Costa Rica follows a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate is adjusted from time to time, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading part- ners and balance of payments developments. All transactions, with the exception of allowances for studies abroad (see below), take place at the unified exchange rate. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling banking rates were C 83.85 and <L 84.85 per US$1, respectively. The official exchange rate of C 20.30 = US$1 is used exclusively for granting foreign exchange to students in foreign countries who registered with the Central Bank prior to 1981. The spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is legally set at C 1.00 (although during the period July 19-October 5, 1989, it was C 1.50). Purchases and sales of other Central American currencies are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and cer- tain private banks authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial op- erations, services, and capital may be made in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement be- tween the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Re- public of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the mem- ber central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import pay- ments may be made freely. All imports must be registered in the Central Bank before removal from customs or before the submission of requests for foreign exchange, with the following exceptions: (1) merchandise whose c .i .f. value is less than US$1,250; (2) temporary imports; (3) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; (4) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations; and (5) household items. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Min- istry of Economy and Commerce. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Customs tariff rates range from zero to 66 per- cent. In addition to any applicable customs tariff, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 10 per- cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on how essential the item is considered to be. Sur- charges on imports from Central America are levied at a maximum rate of 2 percent, except for capital goods and samples, which are exempt. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transportation, trucks, ambulances, and hearses, and chassis with single or dual cab are exempt from the surcharge. Other vehicles with an import value of up to US$6,000 are subject to a surcharge of 17 percent, and those with a larger import value are subject to a surcharge of 152 percent. Pickup trucks with a weight capacity of up to 1 ton are subject to a surcharge of 17 percent and those with a weight exceeding 1 ton are exempt. Minibuses for collective transportation and vehi- cles with displacement of up to 1,300 cubic centime- ters or with a customs value of up to US$4,000 are exempt from the selective consumption tax. Other vehicles are subject to an ad valorem selective con- sumption tax of up to 75 percent, depending on import value, displacement, and extra accessories. Vehicles with a weight of up to 2 tons are subject to a 75 percent selective consumption tax, and those with a weight exceeding 2 tons are exempt. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 117 subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent, and those with extra accessories are subject to a selective consumption tax of 40 percent. An advance deposit equivalent to 1 percent of the value of imports is required at the time of submis- sion of applications for foreign exchange to autho- rized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent or 5 percent are levied on remittances of dividends. The 5 percent withholding tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock companies whose shares were acquired at the stock exchange and that are registered at an officially acknowledged stock exchange. Remit- tances abroad of interest are subject to a 15 percent withholding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Central Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for industrial or agricultural/livestock activities. Interest on govern- ment borrowing abroad is exempt. Costa Rican na- tionals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, land, or sea must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to US$10; Costa Rican nationals who res- ide abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only C 6, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, un- less so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all of the above payments, except for dependents of diplomatic parents, who pay only the <L 6 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing in the unified market may sell foreign exchange—without the prior au- thorization of the Central Bank—in the following amounts: (1) for foreign travel, a limit of US$120 a day up to a maximum of US$2,000 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commer- cial banks are authorized to sell the equivalent of this amount in the currency of a Central American country to travelers to Central American countries other than Panama); (2) for family remittances, up to US$500 a person a month to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (3) for registered students, a maximum of US$500 a month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance, upon presentation of documents. Subject to approval by the Central Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justified by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior autho- rization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for the servicing of pri- vate foreign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the banking system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases. Exporters of nontraditional commodities to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) for 15 percent of the f.o.b. value in the case of exports to the United States and Puerto Rico, and for 15 or 20 percent for destinations outside Central America. In addition, exporters of nontraditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEXs), which are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank, for 4-10 percent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; in practice, however, this program has been inoperative. Export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Pro- duction); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); In- dian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, cer- tain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to Nicaragua must be on the basis of advance payment in U.S. dollars, barter arrangement, or letters of credit con- firmed by a major international bank. The exchange proceeds from coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, bovine cattle, and other perishable items must be surrendered within 30 days of ship- ment; within 90 days of shipment for exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COSTA RICA semiperishable goods; and within 180 days of ship- ment for other industrial products, except for capi- tal goods, which, by decision of the Central Bank of Costa Rica, may be granted periods of up to 360 days. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. (The tax on coffee became zero on Octo- ber 26.) Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and non- residents may be made, subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. Capital received by the private sector may be registered at the Central Bank of Costa Rica, provided that it meets various re- quirements, including the requirements that (1) the project financed with the funds has (or will even- tually have), directly or indirectly, a positive effect on Costa Rica's balance of payments; (2) the amount of the capital is not less than US$5,000; and (3) the individual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank or to any other bank in the national banking system. The registration guarantees the individual that the Central Bank will sell to him the exchange required to service the debt at the ex- change rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. The National Budget Authority1 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new exter- nal credits contemplated by the Central Govern- ment, decentralized agencies, and state enter- prises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of spec- ified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and juridical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological trea- sures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of interna- tional agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for ex- ports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments November'23. The maximum tariff rate was re- duced to 66 percent as part of a trade reform aimed at reducing the maximum tariff rate to 40 percent over three to five years in accordance with the re- form that began in 1987. December 15. The advance import deposit require- ment, which was 50 percent at the end of 1988, was reduced, three times during the year, to 1 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds June 5. The requirement that export licenses be obtained from the Central Bank was eliminated; instead, a single export form for the simultaneous reporting of all foreign sales was required. These forms would be issued by several public sector institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the ex- change control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward ex- change cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. For- ward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of Ex- ternal Finance and Credit, only in respect of pay- ments for imports of goods and only for the cur- rency stipulated in the commercial contract. There irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. are no official schemes for currency swaps or guar- anteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun- try. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur- itania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in- stitute of issue that maintains an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury is prohibited. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 COTE D'lVOIRE Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into four categories, as follows: (1) prohibited im- ports (e.g., wheat flour and used garments); (2) import items (e.g., paints, matches, and de- tergents) for which import licenses are obligatory for each import transaction equal to or exceeding CFAF 25,000, f.o.b.; (3) import items requiring a declaration of intent to import; and (4) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import; in the last two cases, (3) and (4), the requirements apply only to individual transac- tions equal to or exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b. As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. Thus, imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid or a government-to-government contract. All other imports may be made freely from any coun- try; however, as mentioned above, imports made freely are subject to submission of an import decla- ration when their f.o.b. value is CFAF 100,000 or more, and, in some instances, authorization is also required. Unless specifically exempted, when the f.o.b. value exceeds CFAF 1.5 million, they are sub- ject to preshipment inspection by international agencies to control their price, quantity, and quality. A special import duty of 10 percent and a statistical tax of 2 percent are levied on all imports with only a few exceptions, such as live animals, fish, dairy products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, books, and products imported under the invest- ment code. The statistical tax applies to temporary imports and the special import duty applies to all final imports. During 1989, tariffs were raised with a view to harmonizing effective protection of local production; in the case of some goods, quotas were replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to de- cline progressively during a five-year period that began in 1988. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must also be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if a financial transaction is to be under- taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Effective June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import pay- ments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Cote dTvoire must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote dTvoire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, the amount taken out must be declared to customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any traveler's checks issued abroad. Subject to docu- mentation, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Ac- count in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Cote dTvoire. Nonresidents who have made a cur- rency declaration upon entry or are able to show ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 121 the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require an ex- port license issued by the Directorate of External Trade. An export premium is applied on the basis of the domestic value added in locally manufactured products and agricultural products, excluding cof- fee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples. Export taxes are waived for products receiving the premium, and products covered by taxation agreements under the WAEC are not eligible for the premium. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the Operations Ac- count Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying coun- try, export receipts must be collected and repatri- ated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destina- tion, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than GRAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an autho- rized bank within eight days and must make a dec- laration to customs upon entry. change control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Cote d'lvoire companies. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Ac- count countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and in- stitutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire4 must be authorized in ad- vance by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of invest- ments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Cote d'lvoire investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct in- vestments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. 4Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cote d'lvoire of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 COTE D'lVOIRE Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or by approved international trading houses to fi- nance international merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, includ- ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities pre- scribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and do- mestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the third- to-last year of the exemption period, and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third-to- last year of the exemption period, 50 percent in the next-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year of the exemption period. Imports of intermediate goods or raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and ex- ports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments July 28. A statistical tax of 2 percent and a special import duty of 10 percent were levied on most im- ports (Decree No. 89-840). The statistical tax would apply to temporary imports and imports under customs bond, and the special import duty would apply to all other imports. Live animals, fresh fish, dairy products, petroleum products, pharmaceuti- cals, books, and goods imported under the invest- ment code are exempt from the two taxes. The customs tariff on imports that are already subject to a rate higher than 10 percent was reduced by 10 per- centage points. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate of the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily, with the aim of maintaining its effective rela- tionship with the currencies of its main trading part- ners. On December 29,1989, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4780 and £C 0.4787 respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deut- sche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound ster- ling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in interna- tional money market centers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers (banks) facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports and tourism for periods of up to 12 months. Rates for longer periods up to 2 years for exports are also available on an ad hoc basis, when justified. Cover for imports is normally provided up to 6 months. When justified (e.g., pay- ments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates may be quoted up to 15 months on request. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (com- mercial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded non- resident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain External Ac- counts and Foreign Currency Accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or it may be credited to an External Account or Foreign Currency Account. In addition to in- come, the principal that may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus is up to £C 5,000. Funds can also be released from Blocked Accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, includ- ing educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and fresh meat are prohibited. Most other imports are 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 CYPRUS free of licensing requirements. Only imports of cer- tain commodities require an import license. Such commodities include goods produced or manufac- tured locally, as well as all machinery, plant and equipment, and spare parts and accessories. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may take measures whenever required to regulate the impor- tation of goods for the encouragement of local pro- duction and manufacture. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documen- tary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for im- ports whose value does not exceed £C 2,000. Pay- ments for imports requiring a license are expected to be made within the time limits specified on the license. An import surcharge of 6 percent (3.9 per- cent for imports from European Communities (EC) countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feedstuff, pharmaceuticals, and goods im- ported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the ap- proval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad without limitation, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums due to for- eign insurance companies are remittable after de- duction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower- level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. The maximum annual allowance for living expenses for studies in Western European coun- tries, excluding Greece, is £C 3,500; for Greece £C 2,200; for Canada and the United States, £C 5,000; for Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, £C 2,000; and for all other countries, £C 3,000. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. The exchange allowance for tourist travel (including that for travel arranged on an all-expense-inclusive tour basis) is £C 450 a person a trip. The allowance for business travel is not fixed, but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000. Additional amounts may be provided with the approval of the Central Bank. They are further empowered to issue medical ex- pense allowances up to £C 3,000. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that de- parting residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount of for- eign currency notes they declared on arrival. For- eign currency notes equivalent to up to US$1,000 need not be declared, except when they are to be deposited with an authorized dealer. In addition, authorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents. Fur- thermore, authorized dealers are permitted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to control by the respective Marketing Boards, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when their f .o.b. value exceeds £C 100, to ensure the repatriation of the sales proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature are not nor- mally permitted. Applications for direct investment abroad by residents are approved only if the pro- posed investments will promote exports of goods and services and if the amount required is small. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits ac- cruing to the national economy. Foreign direct in- vestment is normally permitted in selected fields of production, such as export-oriented industries and new products. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 125 including capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immov- able property for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the prop- erty; the balance, if any, is transferable at the yearly rate of £C 5,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots purchasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign na- tionals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 10,000; any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is limited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. Interest earned on blocked accounts is freely transferable abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments October 19. The amount of foreign exchange au- thorized dealers are permitted to sell for advance import payments purposes without prior approval was increased to £C 2,000 from £C 500. Payments for Invisibles July 28. An Order was issued under which ex- patriate Cypriots and Cypriots working temporarily abroad, after resettling permanently in Cyprus, were exempted from the obligation to surrender foreign currency earned abroad. They are conse- quently allowed to keep such funds in foreign cur- rency or external accounts in Cyprus or abroad. October 7. The maximum annual allowances for subsistence purposes granted to residents studying abroad were increased as follows: for Western Euro- pean countries, excluding Greece, to £C 3,500; for Greece, to £C 2,200; for Canada and the United States, to £C 5,000; for Eastern European and Mid- dle Eastern countries, to £C 2,000; and for all other countries, to £C 3,000. Capital July 19. The foreign exchange allowance granted to residents emigrating for permanent residence abroad was increased to £C 10,000 from £C 5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lux- embourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the ex- change rate and intervention mechanism of the Eu- ropean Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent1) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Danmarks Na- tionalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participat- ing in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1989, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire2 100 Spanish pesetas Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.9143 390.16 116.32 346.24 1,045.11 0.5620 6.231 18.0831 373.00 111.20 331.02 999.13 0.4985 5.526 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does in- tervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates. This smoothing out takes place only with respect to movements of the EMS currencies, that is, predomi- nantly the deutsche mark. Interventions may tech- nically be executed in any currency included in the official fixing of exchange rates, and the U.S. dollar is often used as the intervention currency. Dan- marks Nationalbank has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the irThe margins of the Italian lira were reduced to plus or minus 2.25 percent, effective January 8, 1990. Effective January 8, 1990, the rates were set at 0.5214 (upper limit) and 0.4985 (lower limit). intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 20 foreign currencies (including the ECU);3 are of- ficially fixed daily and reflect the going rates at the time of the fixing. On December 29,1989, the official rates for the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar were DKr 389.40 and DKr 660.75, respectively, per 100 units. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without any limitations with respect to the amounts, curren- cies, or instruments involved. Foreign exchange dealers (banks) must, however, keep their net for- eign exchange position (spot plus forward) against the Danish krone within a range equal to ± 10 per- cent of their capital. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, contains rules concerning payments between residents and non- residents, which —for statistical purposes —must be reported to Danmarks Nationalbank when pay- ments exceed DKr 60,000. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited se- curities abroad, or have entered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Is- lands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1, 1988. 3Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 127 Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Exchange control rules on reporting re- quirements for statistical purposes, on depositing of foreign securities, and on holding of accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange dealers. Foreign exchange dealers are commercial banks, savings banks, and stockbrokerage com- panies or other financial institutions, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle pay- ments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspon- dent banks). Danmarks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, where re- quired, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Communities (EC) system of export-import licenses has now been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non- state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or pur- chased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Dem- ocratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to the Republic of South Africa are prohibited. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on EC directives on capital movements and the Or- ganization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD) Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member coun- tries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad in connection with direct in- vestments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. Private acquisition of real estate for non- commercial purposes and expenses related to build- ing and construction work on such property can be made without limitations. Exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresi- dents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without prior license. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special li- cense. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to all types of Danish shares, including shares of joint stock and private companies; they may also acquire private mortgage deeds. Residents may take up loans from nonresidents to finance imports of goods and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services. Business enterprises may borrow abroad without permission. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents are permitted freely, irrespective of the manner in which the original investment was acquired. Inter- est and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid without restriction. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may be trans- ferred to any country without limitation. Gift remit- tances to other persons may also be made without limitation. Imports and exports of securities are permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. For- eign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 DENMARK Foreign exchange dealers must maintain net posi- tions in foreign currencies in a range equivalent to 10 percent of their equity capital. of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 22 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for other curren- cies are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-6.0 percent set by the commercial banks, de- pending on the currency concerned. There is a fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or US$6.00) for transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts in respect of commercial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On September 19, 1980, Djibouti formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Deposits in U.S. dollars con- stitute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti, but the territory as a whole does not con- stitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes (the general con- sumption tax). The rate of this tax is 30 percent for luxury goods and 20 percent for all other goods. Certain commodities, including alcoholic bev- erages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on im- ported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions. Ex- port proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and sal- aries paid to individuals and legal entities who are not permanent residents of Djibouti for professional purposes.1 Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Under the Investment Code of June 5,1975, enterprises estab- lished or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 1The tax rate was changed to 10 percent, effective January 1, 1990. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and ex- port arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories par- ticipating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR- icoM)2 must be made in the currency of the CAR- ICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries must be made in the foreign currency that is legal tender in the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; such lrThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lu- cia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Do- minica. The accounts can only be credited with for- eign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Democratic Kampuchea require a license. All other goods except those on the negative list may be im- ported without a license. Goods on the negative list may, however, be imported from the member coun- tries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)4 without a license. Goods on the negative list, except for some 18 product items,5 may also be imported from the CARICOM countries without a license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business trav- elers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, pro- vided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 4The OECS countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and the British Virgin Islands (associate member). 5Carbon dioxide; curry powder; wheat flour; margarine and shortening; pasta products; aerated beverages; beer; industrial gases; paints, varnish, and lacquers; candles; diothene plastic sheets in tubular form; wooden doors; toilet paper; corrugated cardboard boxes (for the banana industry); paper bags; solar water heaters; wood furniture; and mattresses and mattress supports. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 131 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (4) for overseas travel for medical treat- ment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of a medical certificate stating that the journey is necessary and upon presentation of travel documents; (5) for educational expenses, including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents resid- ing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be ob- tained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval of the Ministry of Finance may also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Profits may be remitted overseas in full, provided that the Comptroller of Inland Revenue has prior knowl- edge of the transfer. dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capi- tal transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted, sub- ject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 for each family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to fi- nance their domestic operations requires the ap- proval of the Ministry. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda- tory, except when the exporter has a foreign cur- rency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Exports of bananas are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quan- tities of gold may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The following ten items were added to the negative list of goods requiring a license for impor- tation from outside the OECS area: aerated bev- erages; carbon dioxide; wooden doors, including paneled doors; paper bags; corrugated cardboard boxes for the banana industry; plastic unisex san- dals; solar water heaters; furniture of wood and upholstered fabric; mattress supports; and diothene (plastic) sheets in tubular form for the banana industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$6.34 = US$1. The Central Bank administers all foreign exchange transactions; all exchange receipts must be surren- dered, and most payments require the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank. Only foreign exchange purchases by private individuals for specified cur- rent invisibles up to US$5,000 for each transaction and up to a limit of US$10,000 a year do not require prior approval. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$6.33 and RD$6.35, respec- tively, per US$1. A commission equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Cen- tral Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 Other exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank and other banks carry a commission of Vs2 of 1 percent. Commercial banks charge their customers commissions of a/4 of 1 percent (buying) and of 1 percent (selling); an additional commission of 1 percent is levied on payments by letter of credit. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. A commission, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the Office of the President, determines priorities for the servicing of public sector external debt. Com- mercial banks transact in foreign exchange under central bank supervision and at exchange rates set by the Central Bank. Payments abroad are subject to documentation and limited to transactions via com- mercial banks. At the end of 1989, there were 23 commercial banks (including the state-owned Re- serve Bank) operating in the foreign exchange mar- ket in the Dominican Republic. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange facilities, except where 1 Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum, medicine, and agri- cultural products are exempted from this commission. the Banco de Reserva is authorized as the sole dealer. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Settle- ments with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through special ac- counts established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents regarding the currency to be used for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may open time deposits (mini- mum balance of US$1,000) and savings deposits (minimum balance of US$100) denominated in U.S. dollars. Use of funds on these accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are effected at the official exchange rate determined by the Central Bank. In Octo- ber 1989, the commercial banks have been allowed, on a temporary basis, to obtain foreign exchange outside the official system to cover payments for imports which have been previously authorized by the Central Bank. Import settlements against collec- tion or by draft must be denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Imported merchandise requires a Central Bank certification of the use of foreign currency for customs clearance. A written order from the Office of the President of the Republic is required to import any goods that are not covered by a written authori- zation from the Central Bank, except for a few items purchased by hotels for their exclusive use. Most imports are subject to an exchange commission equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value. In prin- ciple, "nominal duty rates" range from a minimum of 40 percent to nearly 900 percent for imports of malted beverages. Most of the nominal duty rates at 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 133 the three- and four-digit level of the tariff schedule range between 40 percent and 75 percent. An inter- nal consumption tax of 20 percent ad valorem and a 4 percent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges are applied on all imports, subject to the minimum duty of 20 percent, with the excep- tion of agricultural and industrial machinery and inputs for the manufacture of agrochemical prod- ucts, which are subject to a 5 percent duty. In Feb- ruary 1988, the reference exchange rate used to evaluate imports for customs taxes was modified. Essential imports are evaluated on the basis of RD$3.36 per US$1, and nonessentials at RD$5 per US$1 (sliding up to RD$10 per US$1 for imported cars, depending on engine size). Payments for Invisibles All categories of invisible payments, with the ex- ception of profit remittances and royalty payments, may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documentation requirements. Annual profit remittances cannot exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered in the Foreign Department of the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign ex- change to commercial banks upon arrival may re- convert up to 30 percent of the total amount surren- dered (maximum of up to the equivalent of US$5,000) upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, in- cluding some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, products imported under specified bilat- eral trade agreements are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. A number of products (such as sugar, molasses, cof- fee, and cocoa) are subject to prior authorization. Export licenses, issued by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX), are required for all products. With specified exceptions, exporters must, within two working days of receiving payments, surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the value of their exports. For the purposes of exchange sur- render, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices established by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and deal- ing in ferro-nickel exports are exempted from the exchange surrender requirements and are required to convert only the foreign exchange needed by them to cover local costs and taxes. Excess proceeds from coffee exports are subject to a graduated tax at a maximum rate of 40 percent when the export proceeds calculated at the exchange rate in force at the time of sales registration with the Coffee Depart- ment of the Secretariat of State for Agriculture are more than RD$400 per 100 pounds. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario—CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o.b. or c . i . f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 per- cent when exports contain a high degree of domes- tic agricultural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. How- ever, only a limited number of CATs have been issued. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which du- ties are waived for any imports used in the manufac- ture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. Nontraditional exports are entitled to a refund of a percentage of the import duties paid on raw mate- rials or component parts used in the manufacture of goods subsequently exported; the refund is 90 per- cent on exports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent on exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent on exports produced in the indus- trial free trade zone.2 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Ex- porters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment with- out authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. Proceeds originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards are also subject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to exports. The import of Dominican bank notes and coins is prohibited. 2Nontraditional exporters who qualify under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69 are also fully exempted from pay- ment of import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. How- ever, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19,1978, which created a Directorate of Foreign Investment to approve direct investment requests. Such investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Outward remittances related to investments require the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional au- thorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board authorization. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to foreign borrowing for export, im- port substitution, and social projects such as hous- ing and education. Total financial charges on for- eign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than 3 percent. There are also minimum maturity requirements ac- cording to the type of financing. Since January 23,1985, the Central Bank has pro- vided foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the market rate; the servicing of private external debt is effected through the market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The preferential exchange rate of RD$5.15 per U.S. dollar for imports of petroleum and its derivatives was eliminated. October 16. The commercial banks were allowed, on a temporary basis, to obtain foreign exchange outside the official system to cover payments for imports that have been authorized previously by the Central Bank. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Administration of Control March 2. Dominican enterprises distributing for- eign currency remittances or securities received from abroad were required to demonstrate that they or their associates abroad had registered with the appropriate agencies of the country concerned. The Central Bank was authorized to conclude agreements with enterprises operating abroad that remit foreign exchange and send securities so that they may act as agents in the collection of foreign exchange. The Central Bank was also authorized to open accounts in any bank in the United States or Puerto Rico. April 13. Regulations governing the sale of trav- eler's checks by commercial banks in the Dominican Republic were established. The commercial banks were authorized to open foreign exchange facilities, except where the Banco de Reserva has been authorized as the sole dealer. Penalties against commercial banks violating the exchange system on sales of up to US$5,000 to resi- dents were established. Imports and Import Payments May 5. The decree that had temporarily sus- pended the import of various items and that spec- ified the type of goods, quantity, standards, and procedures required for import approval was re- introduced and extended for a fur ther year begin- ning May 5, with the exception of vehicles, for which a period of seven months from June 1 to De- cember 31, 1989 was established. September 17. A written order from the Office of the President of the Republic would be required to import any goods, whatever their nature, that are not covered by a written authorization from the Central Bank, with the exception of the following items purchased abroad by Dominican hotels for their exclusive use: bed linens, towels, sheets, pil- lows, bedspreads, and utensils and equipment such as dishes, cutlery, and glassware. Exports and Export Proceeds April 13. Exporters were given until June 30,1989 to surrender foreign exchange receipts to the Cen- tral Bank. July 31. The graduated tax on excess proceeds from coffee exports was lowered to 40 percent from 80 percent when the export proceeds, calculated at the exchange rate in force when the sale is regis- tered with the Coffee Department of the Secretariat of State for Agriculture, are more than RD$400 per 100 pounds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. At present, there are three exchange rates: the offi- cial rate of SI. 390 per US$1, which is used for the accounting purposes of the Central Bank of Ecuador only; the intervention market rate of the Central Bank; and the free market rate. As of August 31, 1988, all foreign trade transactions of the private sector, as well as some other private sector foreign exchange transactions (mainly those of the national press and of eligible students abroad) take place on the intervention market of the Central Bank. This market has a single rate but operationally has two segments—one for the public sector (where all pub- lic sector transactions take place) and the other for the private sector (where a foreign exchange alloca- tion system governs private sector transactions). Those private sector transactions that do not take place in the intervention market take place in the free market. The intervention rate of the Central Bank is adjusted weekly, on the basis of a prean- nounced peg rate (since May 15, 1989, a weekly depreciation of S/. 3.00 against the U.S. dollar); the selling rate is set at 2 percent above the buying rate. On December 29,1989, the exchange rate (averages of buying and selling rates) was S/. 648.42 per US$1 in the intervention market of the Central Bank, and S/. 659.02 per US$1 in the free market. In the public sector segment of the intervention market, the Central Bank is authorized to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds relating to the fol- lowing transactions: the f.o.b. value of all public sector exports; interest earned on international re- serves; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disbursements; foreign ex- change balances on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank (when considered in excess of the normal requirements of each entity); and all other transactions of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange relating to payments of the following operations in the public sector segment of the intervention mar- ket: the c. and f. value of public sector imports; purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amortization in for- eign currency of the public sector; transfer of sur- pluses of foreign oil companies operating in Ec- uador; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. In the intervention market for the private sector, the Central Bank is authorized to buy 100 percent of the f.o.b. value of all private sector export proceeds and 100 percent of the proceeds from credits granted by multilateral agencies, foreign govern- ments, and the private sector previously authorized by the Monetary Board. The Central Bank deter- mines twice a week the maximum amount of for- eign exchange available (the limit of 90 percent of exports proceeds from the private sector was raised to 100 percent in December 1989) and sells this amount for the payment of the c. and f. value of private sector imports, for the foreign exchange re- quired by the national press and by students abroad who have obtained financing from the Ecuadoran Institute for Education Loans, and for the servicing of loans provided by multilateral agencies, govern- ments, or their agencies granted to Ecuadoran fi- nancial institutions to finance private investment projects. Requests for foreign exchange have to be submitted to the Committee for Foreign Exchange Sales (Comite de Venta de Divisas) through authorized banks, financial companies, or professional organi- zations (Federaciones Nacionales de Cdmaras), none of which can submit requests of more than 20 percent of the total amount offered at each biweekly session. Requests for foreign exchange for import payments can be presented only on the basis of import permits granted at least 30 days before the session. Requests are satisfied according to the chronological order of the date of issuance of the import permits. The amount of foreign exchange received by each par- ticipating institution is determined on a pro rata basis, given by the ratio of the total amount offered to the total amount requested multiplied by the amount requested by the institution in question. The Central Bank is authorized to purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of fu ture exports, within a maximum period of 90 days, with exception made for exports of coffee grain, shrimp, and fish in natu- ral form, which can be exported within a maximum period of 150 days. Under transitional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to provide foreign exchange at the intervention market rate for the following pay- ments: imports for which permits were granted up to August 11, 1986; the redemption of foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds; the servicing of the pri- vate sector external debt for which the foreign ex- change was sold to the Central Bank up to 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 ECUADOR August 11, 1986; profit remittances and capital re- patriation generated by foreign investments for which the foreign currency was sold to the Central Bank up to August 11,1986; and expenses incurred abroad by students and handicapped persons for which a contract was approved by the Central Bank up to August 11, 1986. To meet obligations arising from import permits granted up to August 11,1986, the Central Bank is authorized to issue foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds, provided the counter- value in sucres has been deposited with the Central Bank and all the requirements for payment abroad have been fulfilled. The maturity of the bonds runs from the date of issue. The Central Bank will issue four stabilization bonds, each amounting to 25 per- cent of its obligation, with maturities every six months. The bonds carry an interest rate equal to the three-month LIBOR (or equivalent rate in non- U.S. dollar currencies). The final deadline for sub- mitting applications for foreign currency stabiliza- tion bonds was extended in October 1989 to Jan- uary 17, 1990. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an ex- change tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Ex- change proceeds from other countries must be re- ceived in convertible currencies. Whenever pos- sible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries: List I, consisting of priority goods ("Special" Group), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semi-essential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods); and List II, consisting of luxury goods. All goods not included on these two lists are pro- hibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. As of Decem- ber 31, 1989, imports of motor vehicles remain pro- hibited, while the prohibition on imports of heavy vehicles has been lifted. The requirement that im- ports of capital goods be financed by the proceeds of loans from international organizations, govern- ments, or their agencies was phased out during 1989. A prior import deposit scheme, in effect since October 1987, was modified during 1989, with the rates being gradually reduced. As of December 31, 1989, the scheme requires both private and public sector importers to lodge at the Central Bank a non- interest-bearing 120-day deposit in domestic cur- rency. The rate of deposit for private sector imports is 30 percent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List I, Group A (essential goods); 50 percent for goods on List I, Group B (semi-essential goods); and 80 per- cent for goods on List II (luxury items). The rates for public sector imports are half of the above rates. Priority goods (List I, "Special" Group) are exempt from the deposit requirement. Nor does the re- quirement apply to nonreimbursable imports fi- nanced by loans from international organizations, certain donations, imports originating in or pro- ceeding from Andean Group countries, imports purchased through the U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation, and imports with payments deferred by 90 days or longer from the date of shipment. With specified exceptions, prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. Books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed music may be im- ported with or without prior import licenses. Medi- cines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$1,500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petro- leum Corporation (Petroecuador) may import sup- plies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business during emergency situations without obtaining a prior import license. With spec- ified exceptions, requests for import licenses for goods included under List I, Special (priority goods) have to be accompanied by a foreign exchange guar- antee from an authorized bank or financial com- pany for the c. and f. value of the imported goods. Import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, prior ministerial authorization (where applicable) has been obtained, and a certificate has been submitted showing that insurance has been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 137 arranged in Ecuador. Upon arrival of the merchan- dise, the importer must settle the remaining 20 per- cent of total import taxes (including import surcharges). All private sector imports are subject to a tax of 10 percent levied on commercial transactions. Fur- thermore, all public and private sector imports are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c. and f. value. With certain exemptions, imports on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent ad valorem. There is a temporary duty-free import scheme for inputs used in export production. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted in the intervention market of the Central Bank. Other pay- ments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no lim- itations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrange- ment for the refinancing of private external debt involves different implicit exchange rates arising from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates apply to the refinancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the domestic fi- nancial system or directly by the private sector, and to the payment of interest on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank before refinancing or sold in the same way at any time if under Resolution No. 1202, or those sold at the free market beginning from July 1, 1982 up to a day before short- or long-term financing. With respect to foreign loans to petro- leum companies, interest, commissions, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percent above the interest rates in the creditor country, and annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of US$25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. exports and a list of exports subject to quota ("ex- portable surplus"), reviewed quarterly by the com- petent ministries. All goods not on these lists are freely exportable. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered on the intervention market of the Central Bank not later than: (1) 15 days from the date of shipment for exports against cash payment, exports of bananas, coffee beans, cocoa beans, prawns in any marketable form, and other unprocessed sea- food products; (2) 30 days from the date of each shipment for perishable products appearing on the lists issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries, or the Ministry of Agri- culture and Stockbreeding, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis or on consignment; (3) 30 days from the date of shipment for the remaining primary products, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis; and (4) 90 days from the date of shipment for products not mentioned above, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis. Nonobservance of the above surrender require- ments is subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. The surrender requirement does not ap- ply to exports effected under authorized barter transactions; however, barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be reg- istered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limitations. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished products of co- coa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for pe- troleum exports will be made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts and must be sur- rendered within 20 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible re- ceipts of the public sector, which are transacted in the intervention market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or definitive (with a validity of 90 days). There is a list of prohibited Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 per- cent to 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 ECUADOR All foreign direct investment in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. With specified exceptions, new investment requires the prior au- thorization of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries. The Ministry does not authorize direct foreign investment for the purpose of establishing advertising firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, news- papers, or magazines. The Department of Credit and Foreign Investment of the Central Bank of Ec- uador is in charge of receiving and approving or rejecting the request for registration. Repatriations of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market in respect of those invest- ments that have been effected through this market. There are no time limits on the remittance of profits. The limit on the repatriation of profit remittances is 30 percent a year, or 40 percent for firms that export at least 40 percent of their production. There are no limits on repatriation of capital and profit for the tourism sector and for enterprises that export more than 80 percent of their production. All foreign loans granted to the Government or to official entities, or guaranteed by them, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign ex- change, are subject to prior approval by the Mone- tary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. The request for such authorization, to be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Monetary Board, must be accompanied by detailed information of the loan contract and of the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments in general, and on monetary policy in particular. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General De- velopment Plan or receive a favorable opinion of the National Council for Development (CONADE), and at least 20 percent of the total cost of the project must be covered by domestic funds. This require- ment does not apply to loans granted by interna- tional organizations or national development agen- cies. New external credits with a maturity of over one year contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be authorized and registered by the Central Bank of Ecuador. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold are re- served for the Central Bank. The import duty on gold in bars is 10 percent of the c.i.f. value, while the duty on semiworked gold is 40 percent ad valorem; semiworked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement May 15. The average rate on the intervention mar- ket of the Central Bank was devalued by 6 percent, and the weekly depreciation rate against the U.S. dollar was increased to SI. 3.00 from SI. 2.50. The spread between the buying and selling rates was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent. July 6. The Central Bank was authorized to sell foreign exchange to the private sector in the inter- vention market for the servicing of loans provided by governments or their agencies directly to im- porters to finance private investment projects. September 25. The buying rate in the intervention market of the Central Bank was devalued by 1 per- cent, and the spread between the buying and sell- ing rates was reduced to 4 percent from 5 percent. The weekly depreciation rate remained at SI. 3.00 against the U.S. dollar. October 19. To meet obligations arising from im- port permits granted up to August 11, 1986, the Central Bank was authorized to issue foreign cur- rency stabilization bonds, provided the counter- value in sucres had been deposited with the Central Bank and all requirements for payments abroad had been fulfilled. October 23. The buying rate in the intervention market of the Central Bank was devalued by 3 per- cent against the U.S. dollar, and the spread between the buying and selling rates was reduced to 3 per- cent from 4 percent. October 31. The Central Bank was authorized to purchase, in the public sector segment of the inter- vention market, the foreign exchange proceeds of the f .o .b. value of all public sector exports (pre- viously only proceeds from exports of crude oil and petroleum products were purchased by the Central Bank). October 31. The Central Bank was authorized to conduct debt-conversion operations using external donations to convert syndicated commercial bank debt into domestic currency bonds (at 50 percent of the nominal value of the converted debt) for use by resident nonprofit entities for activities in the social, cultural, educational, amateur sports, or environ- mental protection areas, for a total amount of US$50 million to be utilized by June 30, 1990. December 12. The limit on the maximum amount of foreign exchange made available by the Central Bank at its weekly sales to meet the payment for private sector imports was raised to 100 percent from 90 percent of the previous week's purchases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 139 December 18. The buying rate on the intervention market of the Central Bank was devalued by 4 per- cent against the U.S. dollar, and the spread between the buying and selling rates was reduced to 2 per- cent from 3 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 24. Merchandise imports purchased through the U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation were exempted from the prior import deposit requirements. October 19. The rates for prior import deposit re- quirements (based on the c .i .f. value of imports) were lowered as follows: (1) to 45 percent for private sector imports (20 percent for public sector imports) under List I, Group A (essential goods); (2) to 75 percent for private sector imports (35 percent for public sector imports) under List I, Group B (semi- essential goods); and (3) to 120 percent for private sector imports (60 percent for public sector imports) under List II (luxury items). October 31. The progressive fines imposed for noncompliance with import inspection require- ments were eliminated and replaced with a fixed sanction equal to 50 percent of the actual c . i .f. value of imports. December 12. The rates for prior import deposit requirements (based on the c.i.f. value of imports) for the private sector were lowered as follows: (1) to 30 percent of the c . i .f. value of imports under List I, Group A; (2) to 50 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports under List I, Group B; and (3) to 80 percent of the c . i .f. value of imports under List II. The rates for public sector imports under the same product categories were set at one half the above rates. Im- porters obtaining financing for 90 days or longer (previously 120 days or longer) were exempted from the prior import deposit requirements. The require- ment that some capital goods imports be financed with the proceeds of loans from international organ- izations, governments, or their agencies was abol- ished. The prohibition on imports of heavy vehicles was lifted. Exports and Export Procedures October 31. The deadlines for the presentation of documents to obtain the final export permit were extended, and the fines for delays in the presenta- tion of documents and in the surrender of export proceeds were reduced. Preshipment inspections were centralized in a single act and location. The progressive fines imposed for noncompliance with the presentation of export documents are equal to 0.1 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports for each day of delay, up to a maximum equivalent to 50 percent of the f .o .b. value of final exports permitted. November 30. The prior authorization export list was abolished, and the list of exports subject to quota was simplified. This new and more limited list of "exportable surplus" products is to be revised quarterly by the competent ministries. Export pro- cedures were simplified and centralized at the Cen- tral Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound; the U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of the central bank pool rate (of the Central Bank of Egypt), the com- mercial bank rate, and the rate outside banks.1 Since 1979, the buying and selling rates of the cen- tral bank pool had been LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1. On August 15, 1989, the Government began a process of unifying the central bank pool rate with the commercial bank rate, and the quoted central bank buying and selling rates were thus adjusted respectively to LE 1.10 = US$1 and LE 1.11 = US$1 (see below). On December 31, 1989, the central bank pool buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LE 1.10 and LE 1.11, respec- tively, per US$1. The exchange rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on the rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar quoted in New York.2 For fiscal year 1989/90 (ending June 30, 1990), certain accounting procedures were established at the Central Bank regarding the transactions that are effected at the central bank pool rate. These pro- cedures entail three subaccounts in respect of the "profit and loss account on foreign operations" maintained by the Ministry of Finance at the Cen- tral Bank. For Subaccount One, on the resources side, sellers of foreign exchange earned from exports of rice as well as the Suez Canal Authority and Egyptian Gen- eral Petroleum Company (after meeting their own operational foreign exchange needs for imports and services) receive domestic currency converted at the previous rate of LE 0.7 = US$1. The difference of LE 0.4 is credited to Subaccount One. On the utili- zations side, government imports of wheat, flour, and edible oil are only notionally effected at the new rate of LE 1.11 = US$1, because the effective foreign exchange cost remains LE 0.707 per US$1. For these 1For customs valuation purposes, a rate calculated monthly on the basis of the average bank market exchange rate for the pre- vious month is used. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. imports, LE 0.403 per US$1 is debited to Subaccount One. In addition, foreign exchange expenditures by Egyptian embassies abroad and for military imports and invisible payments are accounted at the LE 0.707 = US$1 rate, with the LE 0.403 difference also debited to Subaccount One. Government agen- cies importing sugar, tea, fertilizer, pesticides, cer- tain pharmaceuticals, and infant milk formula pur- chase their foreign exchange at the new rate of LE 1.11 = US$1. Subaccount Two pertains only to the cotton sector, with foreign exchange sellers receiving the rate of LEO. 7 = US$1, and Subaccount Two being credited with LE 0.4 per US$1. This Subaccount may be debited to cover losses of the cotton sector.3 During 1989/90, payments of the Government's external debt-service obligations, which are the re- sponsibility of the Ministry of Finance, continue to be debited to the Ministry's account at the Central Bank at the previous rate of LE 0.707 per US$1. The difference of LE 0.403 per US$1 is debited to Subac- count Three. Most debt-service payments of the non- government public sector as well as transfers to the Government and capital inflows that are effected in the central bank pool are transacted at the commer- cial bank exchange rate. A new commercial bank market was introduced on May 11, 1987, in which the 2 travel agencies and all commercial banks authorized to carry out busi- ness in both foreign and domestic currencies (38 banks) were permitted to operate. The exchange rate in this market is set by a committee of eight members (four representatives of the public sector banks, two from the joint-venture banks, and two from the private sector banks). Two observers, one from the Central Bank of Egypt and one from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, attend the committee meetings. The committee meets at the end of each business day to fix the commercial bank rate, which is binding for all transactions effected in the market the following business day. Cross rates are established on the basis of the London exchange market rates. In setting the rates, the committee uses four indicators (supply, demand, working bal- ances of the banks, and assessment of general mar- ket trends). The rate, which was initially set at LE 2.165 - US$1 on May 11, 1987, moved to 3Detailed regulations regarding the authorization to debit Sub- account Two are still under consideration. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 141 LE 2.350 = US$1 by December 31, 1988. During 1989, it fluctuated between LE 2.345 and LE 2.610 per US$1, and, on December 31, 1989, it stood at LE 2.555 = US$1. The selling rate is set by the addition of lk of 1 percent to the buying rate set by the committee, with half of this difference (Vs of 1 percent) accruing to an account of the Ministry of Finance with the Central Bank. The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves at the exchange rate determined by the committee plus an additional Vie of 1 percent. The commercial bank market rate with a 12 percent dis- count applies to transfers by foreign aviation com- panies relating to operations transacted before March 15, 1988. Surpluses realized after that date are transferred at the prevailing commercial bank rate. The Central Bank has determined maximum op- erating balances in foreign exchange for each autho- rized commercial bank. Any excess over this amount must be sold twice a week to a special account in the name of the Central Bank at the rate set on the day the operation takes place plus Vi6 of 1 percent. The Central Bank has also set a limit on banks' net liabilities (equal to 6 percent of each bank's foreign currency deposits) on which it will cover any exchange loss resulting from a deprecia- tion of the rate. The following transactions take place in the com- mercial bank market. On the receipts side: (1) workers' remittances; (2) tourism receipts; (3) bank purchases from all types of foreign ex- change accounts and of foreign bank notes or other means of payment; (4) commissions and bank inter- est receipts; (5) retained private sector export re- ceipts; (6) surrendered private sector receipts from exports of citrus fruits, fish, fresh onions, fresh garlic, live goats and sheep, molasses, peanuts, and potatoes; (7) all public sector visible and invisible receipts except for cotton, petroleum, rice, and Suez Canal and Sumed Pipe Line dues; and (8) profits of Egyptian companies and banks. On the payments side: (1) public sector visible and invisible payments within the limits established by the foreign ex- change budget; (2) some private sector invisible payments permitted under current regulations;4 (3) private sector imports, including those of Law No. 230 companies; and (4) settlements of letters of credit opened by the private sector before May 11, 4Effective February 11, 1988, the commercial banks have been authorized to use each month up to 10 percent of their available foreign exchange receipts to settle private debt-service obliga- tions due after this date. Priority is given to settlements of private debt obligations related to imports, and the Central Bank deter- mines the maximum foreign exchange allocations for each com- 1987, provided that documents are negotiated after this date. A number of special exchange rates are also in effect. A t theendof December 1989, a ra te of LE0.70 = £ 1 applied to visible and invisible trade transac- tions within the framework of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and a rate of LE 3.0 = £ 1 applied to those visible trade transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. A rate of LE 1.30 = US$1 applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 - US$1 is used for liquidation of accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. Private sector payments not authorized through the commercial bank market may be effected through free accounts held with domestic banks ("own exchange") at a rate agreed between the par- ties. These payments include some invisibles. Forward transactions are authorized for pur- chases and sales of foreign currencies through the central bank pool. Three percentage points are ap- plied to the spot buying and selling rates to deter- mine the corresponding forward rates. Forward transactions, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, may be conducted with respect to merchan- dise export and import transactions. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget for public sector for- eign exchange transactions is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general au- thorization, without the need to obtain specific ex- change control approval. The Ministry of Economy mercial bank. Subsequently, the commercial banks were allowed to use a portion of the resources of the new bank market for the settlement of private sector debt obligations in foreign currencies regardless of the date on which the debt became due. In addition, commercial banks were allowed to sell their foreign exchange earnings (accumulated net profits in foreign exchange) to their indebted private sector customers for the purpose of settlement of debts denominated in foreign exchange, at the prevailing new bank market rate. Beginning September 15, 1987, companies covered by Law 43 (joint ventures) have been permitted to remit profits abroad through the commercial bank market, provided that they do not have their own foreign exchange in their capital and working accounts. Also, payments (visible and invisible) by public and private sector enterprises that have been authorized through the commercial bank market may not be effected through the market until the balance in their export retention accounts has been used up. Companies covered by Law 230 are permitted to remit profits abroad within the balances available in their working accounts, and they are allowed to purchase from the free bank market according to the ministerial regulations within the limits of the profits authorized to be transferred abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 EGYPT and Foreign Trade supervises imports and exports by the public sector. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector entities. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyp- tian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the for- eign exchange regulations. However, the proceeds from raw cotton exports to all countries during the September 1989-August 1990 season must be re- ceived in U.S. dollars, with the exception of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Switzer- land, from which such proceeds must be received in their respective currencies or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of these agreements.5 However, pay- ments to such countries for imports and various other purposes not covered by these agreements may be made in convertible currency. Certain settle- ments with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special ac- counts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Ad- vance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, or Free Ac- counts in Foreign Currency. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are transferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements and the in- demnity agreements concluded with certain coun- tries and Canal Dues Accounts, there are three types of accounts: Free Accounts, D Accounts, and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened in either foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Ac- 5 At the end of December 31,1989, Egypt maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sudan, and the U.S.S.R. counts in foreign currency may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad, transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bank notes registered in a customs declaration form, the equivalent in foreign currencies from funds trans- ferred from a Free Account in Egyptian pounds, and interest earned on these accounts. These ac- counts may be debited for transfers abroad, trans- fers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in for- eign bank notes to the owner or others, transfers to Free Accounts in Egyptian pounds, and for any payment in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. Free Accounts in Egyptian pounds may be cred- ited with (1) the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers from abroad in convertible currencies or from a Free Account in foreign currency; (2) transfers from similar accounts; (3) proceeds of sales to an authorized bank of foreign currencies registered in a customs declaration form; (4) proceeds of sales of bank instruments; and (5) interest on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers abroad in convertible currencies, trans- fers to other Free Accounts in foreign currency or transfers to similar accounts, funds withdrawn in foreign bank notes on behalf of the owner of the account or others, and funds used to meet local expenditures for the settlement of export goods. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilat- eral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country con- cerned. These accounts may be credited with re- ceipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts may be credited with any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the ac- count holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical per- sons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered, up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for ex- penses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 143 Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold Foreign Exchange Retention Ac- counts, Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange, and Capital and Working Accounts. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from certain exports of goods and invisible receipts. Public sector com- panies may use these funds for their purposes within the allocations of the foreign exchange bud- get, transfer them to other public sector companies within the same industrial group, or sell them to the authorized banks at the commercial bank rate. Pri- vate sector exporters may debit these accounts for visible and invisible payments related to their eco- nomic activity or sell the exchange in the commer- cial bank market, but may not transfer these funds to free accounts. Holders of private sector export retention accounts are entitled —without the need to submit any documentation—to use up to 25 per- cent of the proceeds of their exports for financing travel expenses for the exporter or his employees, for other invisible payments related to the account holder's activity, and for settling repatriation re- quirements. Unused balances in retention accounts owned by the public sector, unless exempted, must be sold periodically to the banking system at the commercial bank rate. If the balances in the reten- tion accounts owned by the public sector entities originate from invisible proceeds, unused balances must be surrendered monthly. In addition, balances in these accounts must be fully used by the account holder before authorized transactions can be effected by the public or private sector through the commercial bank market. Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange may be opened by authorized banks in the name of Egyp- tian nationals. These accounts may be credited with transfers in convertible currencies, transfers from free accounts in foreign exchange or in Egyptian pounds, transfers from another import account in foreign exchange, the equivalent in free currency of any amount of foreign exchange deposited by cli- ents (regardless of the means of payment and the origin), and bank interest. They may be debited for the financing of private sector imports by the ac- count holder, for transfers abroad to cover invisible transactions related to the activity of the account holder, for settlements of obligations related to im- port transactions effected on behalf of the private sector, and to cover in the form of foreign bank notes and other acceptable means of payment the expen- ditures of the account holder or others abroad within the limit of US$500 (or its equivalent) a calen- dar year, provided that the amount drawn is regis- tered on the user's passport and travel ticket. Withdrawal in cash by the account holder is permit- ted without any limit. Capital and Working Accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 (joint ventures). These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free banks market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interests, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Holders of these accounts are not permitted to use the commercial bank market resources before their balances in these accounts are fully used. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with formulation of a long-term policy for exports and imports, control of the annual export and import plan, and supervision of the execution of the foreign exchange budget. Imports under pay- ments agreements and imports of specified goods from any source are reserved for the public sector. Private sector trade with payments agreement countries is permitted in convertible currencies in items not covered by Trade Protocol agreements. Imports by the Government, public authorities, and public sector companies are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange budget through the central bank pool and the commercial bank mar- ket. For purposes of the foreign exchange budget, the economy is divided into several sectors (agricul- ture, industry, and transportation). The annual for- eign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of each sector decide on the goods to be imported and the entities that are to import them within that quota. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the central bank rate, with the exception of capital goods imports financed by suppliers' credits, which are effected at the commercial bank rate, and imports under bilateral payments agree- ments, which are effected at a special, more appre- ciated rate (except for imports from the U.S.S.R. (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above)). Imports by the private sector are effected through the commercial bank market or from importers' own exchange resources. All commodities not included on the prohibited list of 210 items can be freely imported. Certain goods (e.g., imports financed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 EGYPT with bilateral and multilateral assistance, compo- nents imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are ex- empted from the negative list, and the items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. On application to open a letter of credit, private sector importers (including companies covered by Law No. 230) must lodge with an authorized bank a 35 percent prior import deposit in domestic or foreign currency. These de- posits have to be financed from the importers' own resources. Private importers are required to cover 100 percent of a letter of credit when it is opened. Banks are allowed to finance all or part of the re- maining 65 percent. When suppliers' credit facili- ties are available, the importer may not be required to cover the remaining 65 percent of the letter of credit, depending on the conditions of the sup- pliers' credit agreement. Goods may not be shipped before a letter of credit is opened, except for imports of spare parts needed for machinery and equipment for production activities financed through the use of balances in export retention accounts, provided that the importer pledges to present certification that, within two months, the parts were used or installed in accordance with the relevant regulations. For purposes of customs tariffs, products are clas- sified under 12 groups. The rates range from 0.7 percent to 120 percent. The weighted average rate was 25-30 percent in 1989. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange through the commercial bank market for all invis- ible payments by the public sector, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations, pro- vided that the public sector entities concerned have used up the balances of their retention accounts. Invisible payments (e.g., authorized pilgrimage and medical treatment abroad, education, specified payments for emigrants, etc.6) by the private sector may be financed through the commercial bank mar- ket. Egyptian nationals may use foreign exchange in their free accounts freely for invisible payments abroad. They may also purchase additional foreign exchange from other free accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Profit remittances by companies covered by Law No. 230 are autho- rized through the commercial bank market, pro- vided that funds in capital and working accounts have been used up first. 6See footnote 4 for debt-service payments. Only Egyptian nationals, foreigners who have lived in the country for a continuous period of five years, and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for a period of ten years can purchase airline tickets (one-way or round-trip originating in Egypt) under certain conditions in Egyptian pounds. With this exception, all others must purchase tickets with con- vertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds con- verted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have ac- quired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deducting US$30 for each night spent in Egypt, provided that evidence is produced that Egyptian pounds were obtained at the commercial bank rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the na- tional economy that may be restricted, exports may be made without license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade com- mittees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only, and their proceeds must be repatriated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and in any case within a period of not more than five years from the date of ship- ment. Proceeds from all other exports must be re- patriated within one year of the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of petroleum, cotton, and rice have to be sold to the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fully retained in foreign exchange retention accounts, except that only 50 percent of the proceeds from exports of peanuts, onions, garlic, potatoes, citrus, live goats and sheep, fish, and molasses may be retained, and the remainder must be sold to the commercial banks at the bank rate. Proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing foreigners who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that foreign exchange equivalent to the excess value has been exchanged at an autho- rized bank at the commercial bank rate. The corre- sponding limit on excess value applied to Egyptian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 145 nationals is LE 100, and that for purchases left be- hind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (pro- vided that they are exported within three months of the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Government, public au- thorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system at the commercial bank rate. How- ever, hotels are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in their retention ac- counts. Hotels operating under Law No. 230 are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earn- ings in their retention accounts. Hotels other than those operating under Law No. 230 may also retain an additional 15 percent of their foreign exchange earnings with the approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade to meet their debt-service obligations. Travel agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their for- eign exchange earnings, and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 230; Misr Travel is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may im- port up to LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency. Transactions in Egyptian and foreign securities abroad relating to the purchase and sale of these securities must be carried out through authorized banks, provided that the funds used for this pur- pose represent free foreign exchange. Brokers regis- tered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alex- andria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or pay- ment in foreign currency of the value of the se- curities. All banks are required to deposit 15 percent of their foreign currency deposits with the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance with court orders. Foreigners leaving Egypt permanently after a period of residence of at least five years are permitted to transfer abroad the equivalent of LE 5,000 in foreign currencies through authorized banks, irrespective of whether this sum represents capital assets owned by, or income ac- crued to, the foreign national. Amounts exceeding this sum are deposited in a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 230 of July 1989, concerning the invest- ment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones, defines the treatment of new foreign invest- ments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. The import of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is regu- lated. The export of gold and silver fabrics may be permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are re- patriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in their gold jewelry within specified limits. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement Capital There are no restrictions on the use or transfer of balances on Free Accounts maintained in banks op- erating in Egypt. With this exception, outward capi- tal transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, and to export other personal effects and furniture up to LE 1,200 a per- son or LE 3,000 a family, and LE 6,000 for a woman of Egyptian nationality married to a foreigner. January 17. The accounting rate of LE 3.0 = £1 was established for transactions effected under the bilat- eral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. August 15. The buying rate in the central bank pool was changed from LE 0.7 = US$1 to LE 1.1 = US$1; the impact of this change on most transac- tions was neutralized as they were recorded through three new subaccounts in the profit and loss accounts on foreign exchange operations of the Central Bank of Egypt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 EGYPT Imports and Import Payments March 8. Sixty-five products were put on the list of goods for which letters of credit were not allowed to be opened until fur ther notice. July 22. The exchange rate used for customs valu- ation purposes was adjusted, on the basis of the average bank market exchange rate during the pre- vious month, from LE 1.89 = US$1 to LE 2.55 = US$1. The exchange rate on December 31, 1989 was LE 2.568 - US$1. The consumption tax on imports was reduced by 35 percent. Also, customs tar iffs on a number of products were reduced, as follows: food, from 1 per- cent to 0.7 percent of value; capital and intermediate goods, from 5 percent to 3.5 percent; and all other goods, in the range of 25-30 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles July 11. Public sector hotels were allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in- stead of 10 percent to meet their debt-service obliga- tions. Private sector hotels (other than hotels oper- ating under Law No. 230, which are allowed to retain 100 percent) were also allowed to retain an additional 15 percent of their foreign exchange earn- ings with the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Capital April 20. Emigrants of Egyptian nationality were allowed to export personal effects and furniture up to LE 1,200 a person and LE 3,000 a family. A wo- man of Egyptian nationality who is married to a foreigner and holding a "Departure Form A" was authorized to export up to LE 6,000 when leaving the country permanently. April 23. The commercial banks were allowed to use a portion of the resources of the new bank market for the settlement of private sector debt obli- gations in foreign currencies regardless of the date on which the debt became due. In addition, the commercial banks were allowed to sell their foreign exchange earnings (accumulated net profits in for- eign exchange) to their indebted private sector customers for the purpose of settlement of debts denominated in foreign exchange at the prevailing new bank market rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. Until July 10, 1989, most authorized foreign exchange transactions took place in the official mar- ket, in which the Salvadoran colon was pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at C5.00 = US$1. Foreign exchange held in approved foreign currency deposit accounts with commercial banks, however, could be freely sold among registered ac- count holders at a rate that diverged from the official exchange rate. On July 11, 1989, the Salvadoran Monetary Board modified the foreign exchange sys- tem by transferring the equivalent of 75-80 percent of current transactions to the free bank foreign ex- change market operated by commercial banks. As a result, and until December 31,1989, transactions in the official market were limited to foreign exchange receipts from loans and transfers to the Govern- ment and foreign exchange sales for imports of pe- troleum products and public sector debt-service payments. On December 29, 1989, the Central Re- serve Bank's buying and selling exchange rates in the official market were C5.00 andC5.075, respec- tively, per US$1. In December 1989, the exchange rate in the free bank foreign exchange market aver- aged(£6.40 = US$1. A tax of 0.1 percent is applica- ble to all sales of exchange; on amounts of less than (£100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may slightly exceed 0.1 percent. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sectors. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to the general directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is ex- ercised by the Central Reserve Bank. Prior authori- zation by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all imports in excess of US$300 and for many invisible payments and capital transactions. Exports of a number of commodities require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since January 30,1980, exports of two major commodities have been under government supervision; exports of sugar are governed by the National Sugar In- stitute (INAZUCAR), and those of coffee were gov- erned by the National Coffee Institute (!NCAFE) until November 8, 1989, since which a new institution, the Salvadoran Coffee, has assumed responsibility for granting permission to any private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. On August 20,1986, a new payments mechanism called the Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA) was approved in principle to settle trade transactions with other countries of Central America. To date, this payment mechanism has not come into operation. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions and nonresidents in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign cur- rency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of individuals (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons residing in El Salvador for less than six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements of such accounts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Banks may open foreign currency deposit ac- counts in the name of duty-free shops and enter- prises exporting nontraditional goods and services or requiring imported inputs and services for pro- duction.1 The accounts may be opened in U.S. dol- lars or in any other approved foreign currency; *In December 1989, the Salvadoran Monetary Board elimi- nated a requirement that a foreign currency deposit account must be maintained to undertake international transactions. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 EL SALVADOR transactions can be effected only in the currency in which an account is opened. Accounts may be in the form of a demand or time deposit and are sub- ject to a reserve requirement of 10 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in in- vestments abroad, provided that the maturity of investments does not exceed 30 days for demand deposits, and provided that the maturity of invest- ments from time deposits is the same as the matu- rity of the time deposit. The banks are required to pay interest on the time deposit at rates of up to 2 percent below LIBOR. Approval of the Central Reserve Bank is not required to transfer funds be- tween individual holders of foreign currency de- posit accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and phar- maceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Permits for private sector imports that exceed the equivalent of US$300 need to be autho- rized by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. Following the modification of the exchange sys- tem that took place in July 1989, the Monetary Board set limits on the amount of foreign exchange to be made available through commercial banks for a lim- ited number of imports that would still be effected at the official exchange rate; these included petroleum products, some medicines, fertilizers, machinery, and certain food items and raw materials. By the end of the year, only imports of petroleum products were effected at the official rate, and all other im- ports were transferred to the free market. Imports from the rest of Central America can be financed by sight drafts, letters of credit, direct pay- ments, or the regional clearing arrangement. Until July 25,1989, imports from outside Central America that could be financed through sight drafts (cobranzas) were limited to US$10,000, while im- ports from outside Central America in excess of US$10,000 could be effected only by means of 180- day letters of credit. These requirements have since been eliminated, and imports may now be financed by sight drafts or letters of credit with unrestricted maturity. Public sector import payments are made by the External Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The External Department handles all official bilat- eral lines of credit and lines of credit for Industrial Reactivation funded by the Inter-American De- velopment Bank. Imports from countries outside the Central American Common Market (CACM) that apply dis- criminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years. Also, medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises. In December 1989, the import tariff schedule was modified, and import tariff rates were reduced to the range of 5-50 percent from the range of 0-290 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (i.e., medical treatment, study abroad, and foreign travel) are subject to the following limits: (1) up to US$5,000 a year to meet expenses for medical treat- ment (additional amounts can be authorized in ex- ceptional cases subject to verification), and until July 31, 1989, a guarantee deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the foreign exchange to be placed with the Central Reserve Bank; (2) up to US$8,000 a year for educational expenses, plus US$400 a month for living expenses; and (3) up to US$1,500 a year (or US$75 a day for a maximum of 20 days) for nonbusi- ness trips to countries in Central America (US$700 a year for a child under 16 years), up to US$1,875 a year (or US$125 a day for a maximum of 15 days) for nonbusiness trips to countries outside Central America (US$900 a year for a child under 16 years), and up to a maximum of US$150 a day for business trips, subject to the approval of the Central Reserve Bank. The authority to grant foreign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks. In the case of private remittances, the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Reserve Bank can authorize pension payments to retired government servants living abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foodstuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required for all exports exceeding US$200. Until July 25, 1989, export proceeds from coffee, sugar, and cotton had to be surrendered directly to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 149 the Central Reserve Bank; since then, only export proceeds from coffee have been required to be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank. In addition, all other export proceeds received through the com- mercial banks must be reported to the Central Re- serve Bank. The collection term for export payments normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Depart- ment. The Central Reserve Bank gives "prompt pro- ceeds surrender bonds" to exporters of nontradi- tional goods and services who sell their proceeds within 180 days of receipt. The face value of these bonds is equivalent to the value of export proceeds net of interest rate that the Central Reserve Bank pays on short-term loans, and the bonds may be freely negotiated and can be used as a warranty for banking credits to cover advanced deposits for im- ports or to make settlements on credits contracted with Central Reserve Bank resources. Exporters of specified nontraditional products re- ceive a "certificate for discounting taxes" up to the equivalent of 20 percent of the value added of export products. These certificates may be used for pay- ment of direct and indirect taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an autho- rized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in C200 in domestic notes and coins; this limit is, however, subject to modification to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital trans- actions must be surrendered to the monetary au- thorities, including direct and indirect foreign in- vestment. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial en- terprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and tourist enter- prises; (2) remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprises (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instru- ments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of regis- tration. In the cases under (3) and (4), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Payments abroad representing capital transfers require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. Prior approval by the Exchange Control Department is required for outward remittances of interest and amortization on external loans. Foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Re- serve Bank; foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank is authorized to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credit by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding inter- est. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM member countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of (£25, C50, C100, and C200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Re- serve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jew- elers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users for dental purposes. Changes During 1989 Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts July 31. Duty-free shops were allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. December 4. The requirement that a foreign cur- rency deposit account be maintained to undertake international transactions was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 EL SALVADOR Imports and Import Payments January 1. The maturity date of letters of credit for imports from outside Central America was ex- tended to 180 days from 90 days. February 14. The selective consumption tax on certain luxury goods, including imported goods, was abolished. July 11. Most imports were transferred to the free bank foreign exchange market operated by com- mercial banks. July 31. Limits were set on the amounts of foreign exchange to be allocated to imports that would be effected through the official market in 1989. Guar- antee deposits required for the opening of letters of credit were eliminated. September 18 (and November 30). Import tariff rates were reduced to the range of 5-50 percent from the range of 0-290 percent. December 4. The requirement that letters of credit for imports in excess of US$10,000 from outside Central America must carry a minimum maturity period of 180 days was eliminated. Payments for Invisibles July 11. Payments for invisibles were transferred to the free bank foreign exchange market operated by commercial banks. July 31. The guarantee deposits requirement for foreign exchange applications for travel abroad was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds July 11. All export transactions were transferred to the free bank foreign exchange market operated by commercial banks. July 25. The surrender requirement for export proceeds from cotton and sugar was abolished. December 8. The export taxes on shrimp and sugar were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CEA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs be- tween the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not mem- bers of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equa- torial Guinea's exchange control measures gener- ally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical pur- poses. All other countries are considered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating irThe CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Ac- count country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents in- volving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authoriza- tion of uninterrupted transfer given to the autho- rized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 EQUATORIAL GUINEA subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- alent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after their return to Equatorial Guinea must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. Of that amount, CFAF 150,000 may be bills. Travelers must present certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The trans- fer of the salary of a foreigner working in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the transfer takes place within a month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea temporarily, payments of insurance pre- miums to foreign countries up to CFAF 50,000 are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is not normally given, as there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Ex- ports are allowed only to France. Imports and ex- ports of gold require prior authorization by the Di- rectorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 153 containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and ex- empt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency con- cerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The Na- tional Bank does not deal with the public; its trans- actions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 per- cent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 per- cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be car- ried out through authorized dealers under the con- trol of the National Bank. All payments abroad re- quire licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statu- tory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate im- ports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a freely convertible foreign currency, or in any other accept- able foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. De- posits to these accounts can be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not re- quire prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransfer- able birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. A joint venture may be permitted to open foreign currency, transferable or non- transferable, birr accounts to purchase raw mate- rials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department. In general, the ac- counts may be replenished only after such docu- ments have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange li- censes, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provi- sion of satisfactory information on costs and pay- ment terms and upon the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign ex- change is not made available for a specified group of imported goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic products. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Minister of Transport. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 155 Such authorization is readily granted if imports are financed with foreign exchange balances held abroad. The right of importation, however, is lim- ited to one vehicle every five years. Exchange li- censes are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding im- ports on a cash against documents basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and ma- chinery and transport equipment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earn- ings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facili- ties may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ex- change equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 to study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having de- pendents pursuing higher studies at accredited in- stitutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain a for- eign exchange allocation of up to Br 10,000 for medi- cal treatment and travel abroad. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are also prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an ex- porter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of hides and skins are regulated and are prohibited until the needs of local factories have been met. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be de- clared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visi- tors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to prevent an unwarranted ac- cumulation of external debt, and to keep the au- thorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Exchange control au- thorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities estab- lishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropri- ate documentation, foreign businessmen having nonregistered investments may transfer their capi- tal abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 ETHIOPIA in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. (This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under the Joint Venture Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 of July 5, 1989). Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Joint ventures are permitted between the Ethio- pian public sector and foreign investors, with up to 49 percent foreign ownership, except in the pre- cious metals, public utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, transport, and domestic trade sectors. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of the State Com- mittee for Foreign Economic Relations and regis- tered with the Ministry of Domestic Trade; a mini- mum of 25 percent of share capital is required to be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new pro- jects, and for up to three years for extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemptions from customs duties and other spec- ified import levies. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments re- ceived from the sale or transfer of shares) can be remitted abroad in convertible currency without re- striction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments in respect of debt contracted and fees/royalties in respect of technol- ogy transfer agreements relating to a joint venture. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control ap- proval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed- term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the per- mission of the National Bank. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to bor- row funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless speci- fically authorized by the Minister of Mines and En- ergy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corpo- ration to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require ex- change licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments October 22. Imports of personal effects and motor- cars financed with balances held overseas were liberalized (Council of Ministers Regulation No. 3/1989). October 22. The customs tariff on motorcars was reduced to 200 percent from 300 percent. Capital July 5. The Joint Venture Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 regarding joint ventures was promulgated. The decree specified areas in which joint ventures would be permitted, guaranteed the repatriation of proceeds from liquidation of invest- ment (and dividends), and provided for exemptions from customs tariffs on inputs and equipment im- ported by joint ventures for production purposes and from income taxes for a period of three to five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most impor- tant trading partners. The weighting formula is nor- mally reviewed every three years; the most recent revision was made in 1986. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quota- tions for the U.S. dollar and other currencies in- cluded in the basket. On December 29, 1989, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.4939 per US$1. The Reserve Bank of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Fiji, acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. Ex- cept with the specific permission of the Reserve Bank, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they re- ceive.1 The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is re- sponsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. 1 Under Fiji's Exchange Control Regulations, foreign curren- cies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Ac- count in Fiji currency or a Foreign Currency Ac- count with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Re- serve Bank of Fiji. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on the account, with payments from other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External Accounts also may be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External Ac- counts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of the following goods require a license: seed potatoes, pineapples in processed form, whole peeled tomatoes, tomato paste and puree, tomato juice, tomato sauce and substitutes, chili sauce and chili paste, corned mutton and corned beef, butter, canned mackerel, prawns, fresh oranges, orange juice and orange juice concentrate, powders and preparations for making orange drinks, rice, pork, milk, cream, cheese and curd, live and frozen poultry, and coffee in any form; licenses for some of these items are issued restric- tively. A wide range of consumer goods are im- ported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow pay- ments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 FIJI license. Authorized banks may allow advance pay- ments of up to F$2,000 for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the advance payment is made. The approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji is required in cases where amounts exceed F$2,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either un- der a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Pay- ments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. The approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji, however, is required in cases where amounts exceed the established limits. Residents of Fiji trav- eling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Reserve Bank, a foreign currency travel allowance for a private or business visit up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey; amounts in excess of this limit are ap- proved by the Reserve Bank of Fiji in cases of gen- uine need supported by documentary proof. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank or the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$200 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Foreign-owned companies must apply to the Re- serve Bank for permission to transfer dividends abroad. The policy of the Reserve Bank is to allow the remittance of the current year's profits and one year's retained earnings. The transfer abroad of rent to nonresidents is subject to approval by the Re- serve Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control pur- poses. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exporta- tion of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months with- out specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization are required to be surrendered on a half-yearly basis unless approval for reinvestment abroad was given by the Reserve Bank. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. For- eign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been temporarily sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property abroad is not permitted. Foreign-owned companies are permitted to re- patriate proceeds from the sale of assets up to the limit of F$l million a company a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$20,000 for married and F$13,000 for single applicants. Thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$3,000 a month commencing three months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Account; and (2) the cred- iting of an External Account with Fiji currency ema- nating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Reserve Bank; they must also have the approval of the Bank before granting any loans of more than F$10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 159 designated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$10,000 to individual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents require permission from the Reserve Bank of Fiji before they may borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. Special tax incentives are granted for in- vestments in the tourism industry, and an invest- ment allowance similar to that for the hotel industry is provided for large outlay investment projects sup- portive of the tourist industry. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Reserve Bank; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks re- quire exchange control permission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Prepayment of external borrowing is pro- hibited, and all repayments must be in conformity with the schedule in the loan contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Fiji but not gold bullion. The export of gold coins, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Re- serve Bank of Fiji. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coins, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are restricted to autho- rized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of customs duty but are subject to a fiscal tax of 10 percent; gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 percent. Gold jewelry is subject to customs duty at the rate of 10.0 percent and to a fiscal duty of 25 percent but does not require a license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but they require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 5 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Commem- orative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not nor- mally circulate. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments August 8. The following products were removed from the import licensing requirements: flour; tea; steel bars and rods; steel shelving and racking, tubes, and pipes of iron or steel; blending com- pound, polyvinyl chloride pipes and sheeting; ropes of man-made fiber; dried leguminous vegeta- bles; crown cork; prepared incense sticks and in- cense stick compound; louver window frames; wick-type kerosene stoves; shirts; wood screws; electrical cables; vegetable ghee; margarine; noo- dles; polypropylene bags; matches; sweetened for- age; butt hinges and barrel bolts; wet-cell batteries; multiwall paper bags; cement and clinker; baked beans in tomato sauce and spaghetti in tomato sauce; polypropylene fabrics; knitted fabrics; onions; lamb and mutton; and electric wiring clips. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the convertible currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These are defined as the convertible currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years. The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) within a margin estab- lished by the Council of State. During January 1984- November 1988, the range was 101.3-106.0 (1982 = 100); it was widened to 100.5-106.8 in Decem- ber 1988, and lowered by about 4 percentage points, to 96.5-102.5 as from March 17, 1989. The index weights are adjusted quarterly and are based on the average trade shares for the past two years; the base year is changed annually. The Suomen Pankki cal- culates and publishes the currency index on a daily basis. Daily (noon) buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are quoted by the Suomen Pankki. On December 29, 1989, the rates were Fmk 4.051 and Fmk 4.067 per US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for the clear- ing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Nonbanks may obtain forward cover for authorized transac- tions only. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate dif- ferentials in the countries of various currencies. The Suomen Pankki does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. It also does not quote forward ruble rates. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Suomen Pankki operates the exchange con- trol system, delegating authority in practice to the authorized banks (mainly commercial banks). Im- port and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordi- nate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a board composed of government offi- cials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the convertible cur- rency countries and the bilateral countries.1 Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing Finnish markka for Bul- garia and the German Democratic Republic). Settle- ments with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts and Nonresident Markka Accounts.2 Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in any convertible currency, including Finnish mark- kaa. These accounts may be credited by an autho- rized bank with amounts transferred from other 1 Finland maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Po- land, and the U.S.S.R. Transactions with Czechoslovakia have been settled in freely convertible currencies, and with Poland, in U.S. dollars since 1970, and in U.S. dollars or Finnish markkaa since 1986. The payments agreement with Poland was abolished at the beginning of April 1990. The present bilateral clearing payments system with the U.S.S.R. is based on a five-year agreement on the exchange of goods and payments covering the period 1986-90. On Septem- ber 9,1988, Finland and the U.S.S.R. concluded revisions to this agreement. The maximum imbalance in the clearing account will be limited to rub 200 million beginning January 1, 1990, the imbalance exceeding this limit will be settled quarterly in con- vertible currencies, and the imbalance exceeding rub 100 million will earn interest at an international money market rate. In 1989, a new five-year agreement covering the period 1991-95 was signed. The new agreement provided that the clearing payments system would serve as a base for settling the commercial pay- ments between Finland and the U.S.S.R. during the coming five years. While the agreement preserves the bilateral base of the trade with the U.S.S.R., possibilities to settle commercial trans- actions in freely convertible currencies will be developed to sup- plement the clearing payments system. 2On January 1, 1986, previous "Restricted Accounts'' were abolished, with the Suomen Pankki reserving the power to re- introduce them in case of need. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 161 Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency re- ceived directly from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, with amounts that the bank would be au- thorized to transfer abroad, with amounts of con- vertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely, and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Nonresident Markka Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They are held in markkaa and are intended primarily for payments of a capital nature. Funds held in a markka account may be transferred abroad through an authorized bank without the special permission of the Suomen Pan- kki. A monetary institution may credit a Nonresi- dent Markka Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC markets. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan re- ceived from a resident in a permissible manner, and with interest accrued on funds held in the account. Nonresident Markka Accounts may be debited freely for noncommercial current expenses in Fin- land of and for account of the holder, and funds in these accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those coun- tries. However, certain goods3 may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys- tem, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. With the exception of the commodities to which reference was made in the preceding paragraph, import licenses are not required for most com- modities originating in and purchased from the U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the re- ciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originating in countries or areas not classified4 in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual im- porters may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Foreign exchange is granted freely by authorized banks for all imports for which licenses are granted, on presentation of an application form, the import license (when required for imports from countries with nonconvertible currencies), and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months of the date of customs clearance of the goods. An importer may obtain foreign credits through an authorized bank for the payment of imports, provided that the matu- rity period of credit does not exceed six months; for a credit with longer maturity, permission is granted by the Suomen Pankki after verification. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of invisible transactions are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most invisibles. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may pur- chase from commercial banks foreign exchange without limit on the basis of a breakdown of costs drawn up by the purchaser; the maximum limit is Fmk 10,000 a trip if a cost breakdown is not pro- vided. Nonresident travelers may take out of the country Fmk 10,000 a trip in Finnish or foreign bank notes and coins and any amount in Finnish or for- eign bank notes and coins declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out of the country for- eign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 10,000, without the export certifi- cate for means of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate foreign ex- change proceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a domestic foreign cur- rency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Export li- censes are required only for exports of scrap metal. Agricultural commodities, fish, fuels and other petroleum products, and unwrought gold and silver. 4Currently, Taiwan Province of China and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 FINLAND Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to the U.S.S.R., which is outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade, are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign cur- rency account in Finland. The import of domestic and foreign currency and coins is unrestricted. Capital External borrowing by Finnish residents, par- ticularly in the form of short-term or long-term fi- nancial credits and bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Suomen Pankki. The Suo- men Pankki has exempted from regulation foreign credits with at least a one-year maturity raised by companies engaged in business activities, with the exception of housing and real estate companies. The authorized banks and certain other financial institutions are entitled to act as intermediaries be- tween such credits and their corporate customers. Companies engaged in business activity may grant credits exceeding one year to nonresidents. Finan- cial and insurance companies may, however, obtain credits from or grant credits to nonresidents only after they have obtained the permission of the Suo- men Pankki. Permission is not required for custom- ary export credits; suppliers' credits over three months to residents of Bulgaria, the German Demo- cratic Republic, and the U.S.S.R. are, however, sub- ject to special permit by the Suomen Pankki. Inter- national banking activities of Finnish authorized banks are free of regulations, but are subject to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Suomen Pankki. Authori- zation is granted for residents of Finland to invest in foreign listed securities, to place funds in accounts with foreign monetary institutions, or to leave for- eign claims unrepatriated up to a cumulative total of the equivalent of Fmk 300,000 a person. Outward direct investments are freely permitted for non- financial companies without applying to the Suo- men Pankki. Inheritances are transferred to the beneficiaries after verification. Persons who resided outside Finland during the previous calendar year and who continue to do so are allowed to transfer abroad their net assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Suomen Pankki. Nonresidents may purchase Finnish securities only if they are "free shares" or related options quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC market in Finland through an authorized bank or a securities agent against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. A nonresident purchaser of Finnish shares is permitted to sell them through an autho- rized bank or a securities agent and to transfer abroad the net proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC markets in Finland with funds from Nonresident Markka Accounts is also permitted au- tomatically. Other transactions in securities require approval in most cases. Inward direct investments require the approval of the Council of State if they involve purchases of property and real estate; other inward direct invest- ments are approved by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and such approval is usually granted, ex- cept for investments in the forest and mining indus- tries and in certain traditionally regulated activities. Direct investments from countries with which Fin- land maintains bilateral payments agreements as well as direct investments in the financial and insur- ance sectors are subject to the approval of the Suo- men Pankki. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real prop- erty must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Purchases of real estate abroad by busi- ness companies are authorized without the special permit of the Suomen Pankki; such purchases by a private person are limited to Fmk 1 million. Finnish emigrants and nonresidents in general are permitted to transfer abroad their net assets in Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Imports of unwrought gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Office; such li- censes are granted liberally. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement March 17. The fluctuation limits of the currency index were lowered by about 4 percentage points, which resulted in an appreciation of the markka of the same magnitude. The new fluctuation range was set at 96.5-102.5 (1982 = 100). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 163 Prescription of Currency December 29. Finland and Poland agreed to termi- nate the bilateral payments agreement, effective March 31, 1990. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The Suomen Pankki abolished the fi- nancing arrangements for new short-term export credits. February 1. A temporary deposit requirement of 3 percent was introduced on exports of wood-free printing papers during February 1, 1989-Jan- uary 31, 1990. May 1. The temporary deposit requirement on exports of wood-free printing papers introduced on February 1, 1989 was abolished. Capital June 1. The regulations on direct investments in the financial and insurance sector were liberalized, whereby only direct investments by private individ- uals and direct investments in countries with which Finland maintains payments agreements were made subject to the authorization of the Suomen Pankki. September 1. The regulations on outward and in- ward capital transfers were broadly liberalized, with immediate effect, except for outward capital transfers by private individuals, the regulation for which would enter into effect no later than July 1, 1990. With regard to outward capital transfers, the acquisition of dwellings and real estate abroad would no longer require authorization by the Suo- men Pankki (previously, authorization was required for purchases in excess of Fmk 1 million a person); investments in the form of foreign securities, de- posits held in accounts with foreign monetary in- stitutions, and merchandise held abroad were per- mitted without the authorization of the Suomen Pankki; and credits of more than one year's maturity were allowed to be granted to nonresidents without the authorization of the Suomen Pankki. With re- spect to inward capital transfers, nonfinancial in- stitutions, except for housing and real estate com- panies, were permitted to obtain foreign loans of more than one year's maturity (previously, only loans of more than five years' maturity were permit- ted); suppliers' credits and prepayments in respect of imports were fully exempted from authorization by the Suomen Pankki; and most direct investments in Finland would no longer require authorization by the Suomen Pankki. December 19. A decision was made to liberalize issues of markka-denominated bonds and shares abroad by residents of Finland and issues of markka-denominated bonds in Finland by nonresi- dents. (The liberalization took effect on February 1, 1990.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Re- public of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of plus 2.2753 percent or minus 2.2247 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish pesetas, plus 6.18 percent or minus 5.82 percent1) against the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the Central Bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1989, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 100 Spanish pesetas Francs Upper limit Lower limit 16.631 89.925 343.05 304.44 918.90 0.4941 5.4785 15.899 85.970 327.92 291.04 878.50 0.4383 4.8595 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 20 currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for aThe margins of the Italian lira were reduced to plus or minus 2.25 percent, effective January 8, 1990. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and zaires. the U.S. dollar were F 5.7820 and F 5.7940, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the over- seas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the CFA franc, which is the currency of countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Opera- tions Account.3 These fixed parities are CFPF 1 = F O.055 and CFAF 1 = F 0.02, respectively. Registered banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of spec- ified transactions. All residents including nonen- terprise individuals may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations apply in all ter- ritories of the French Republic, that is, France, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, and Reunion), Mayotte, St. Pierre and Miquelon, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Futuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account coun- tries (see footnote 3); all payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes. Payments between France and foreign countries may be subject to exchange regulations.4 The 3Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 4A11 remaining exchange controls were abolished, effective January 1, 1990. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 165 exchange control regulations include controls over inward direct investment on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968. This decree ap- plies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the French Franc Zone (i.e., Op- erations Account countries). However, the majority of exchange operations are free from any prior au- thorization; these include direct investments abroad (except in South Africa) and direct invest- ments from the European Communities (EC) coun- tries, which are nevertheless submitted to prior notification.5 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget is the coordinat- ing agency for financial relations with foreign coun- tries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct in- vestment and to borrowing abroad, unless they re- late to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of pay- ments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain ex- change control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France and to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial pol- icy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses and is responsible for any litigation relating to the ex- change regulations. Technical visas required for cer- tain imports and exports are issued by the appropri- ate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Indus- try has certain responsibilities in respect of licens- ing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. 5Effective January 1, 1990, direct investments from EC coun- tries were no longer subject to prior notification. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.6 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident Foreign Accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident enterprises engaged in international trade are authorized to hold foreign currency ac- counts in France or abroad. Such enterprises are also authorized to hold accounts in francs abroad. Since March 9, 1989, all residents, including indi- viduals and enterprises not engaged in interna- tional trade, have been permitted to hold ECU- denominated accounts in France.7 Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, in- cluding French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all over- drafts and advances on non-resident-held franc ac- counts have been unrestricted. Nonresident ac- counts may be operated freely. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency ac- counts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of exchange control regulations (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quantitative restrictions and indi- vidual licenses. Imports of goods that originate in other countries and are not covered by French im- port liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EC countries are subject to mini- mum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are 6Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Futuna Islands). 7Effective January 1,1990, all residents were permitted to hold foreign-currency-denominated accounts in France or abroad, and to hold French-franc-denominated accounts abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 FRANCE divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) coun- tries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Lib- eria, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;8 (3) the Eastern European countries (Al- bania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R.), People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrange- ments applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is rela- tively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from different countries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and re- strictions are applied to these and to certain addi- tional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or re- ceive privileged treatment). Imports from all coun- tries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols, but do require a customs document that con- stitutes the customs declaration. For some liber- alized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appro- Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ec- uador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indo- nesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nic- aragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. priate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such administra- tive visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual im- port licenses. These are granted up to quotas deter- mined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified coun- tries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through desig- nated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EC- wide restrictions and national restrictions. The for- mer include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agri- cultural and industrial products negotiated at the EC level. EC-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authorization. Na- tional restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EC are en- forced through temporary import restrictions au- thorized by the EC Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EC (e.g., industry- to-industry understandings that do not directly in- volve member governments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or stan- dards and certification procedures. Automatic li- censing is granted for imports that are under sur- veillance at either the EC or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French ex- change market or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. Importers, exporters, and international trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with regis- tered banks or abroad (also in French francs) with- out limit on the credit balance.9 Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compensation of debts or claims, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Administra- tion does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authorization, permit advance payments to be made Effective January 1, 1990, the right to hold foreign currency accounts in France or abroad was extended to all residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 167 that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents who do not regularly engage in export or import ac- tivities for current invisibles are controlled, but there are no restrictions on their amounts. If justify- ing documents are presented, registered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without any lim- itation. Any resident may make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 50,000 a transaction, pro- vided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad.10 Outward remit- tances for family support abroad and transfers of donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign or domestic bank notes resident and non- resident travelers may take out, but amounts near or exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be de- clared to customs upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are not subject to any exchange control, except when they are made by an occasional exporter, in which case payment must be received through the exchange market. Where re- quired, the repatriation of export proceeds11 and the surrender by sale in the exchange market of pro- ceeds from exports to foreign countries are required not later than three months from the date of receipt. 10Effective January 1, 1990, residents were permitted to make remittances abroad for any purpose and without limitation on the amount. However, transfers of F 50,000 and larger must be declared. 11 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. Exporters are allowed forward coverage of an un- limited period, and may hold foreign currency ac- counts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such ad- vances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are ex- empt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Mo- naco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. As in the case of proceeds of occasional exporters, all amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets (with the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated by occasional exporters of ser- vices and surrendered within three months of the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or larger, however, must be declared to customs upon arrival. The exchange of bank notes issued by Algeria, Mo- rocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign bank notes or trav- eler's checks in excess of F 50,000 within three months of their return to France. Capital12 Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market by resi- dents who do not have a professional activity in exporting, importing, or international trading (see below for special controls over inward direct invest- ment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not 12Effective January 1,1990, all remaining exchange restrictions in respect of capital transactions were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 FRANCE subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of non- resident-owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France, and the sales proceeds can be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been depos- ited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French registered bank or broker. The export for the account of resi- dents of French securities held in France is pro- hibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regula- tions concerning inward and outward direct invest- ment, residents may purchase abroad French and foreign securities on stock exchanges and securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange through registered banks. French and foreign se- curities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresi- dents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them into France through a regis- tered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct in- vestments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, which applies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the Operations Account and Monaco. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one third (20 percent prior to the decree of De- cember 29, 1989) of the capital is considered as di- rect investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20 percent of the capital, but it applies only to each individual foreign participation and not to the total of foreign participations. To determine whether a company is foreign controlled, the Minis- try of Economy, Finance, and the Budget may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Min- istry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. Invest- ments in real estate (except development com- panies and vineyards) and, when they do not exceed 10 million francs, in hotels, restaurants, and retail trade and services, are exempt from prior dec- laration. It is also the case for increases of equity capital in a company already controlled by a foreign investor and for complementary participations in a company in which an investor already holds more than two thirds of the capital share. The decree of December 29,1989 liberalized con- trol over direct foreign investment, mainly by re- ducing the period during which the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget can suspend (for non-EC investors) the acquisition of a participation in an existing French firm or notify to an investor that he cannot be considered as an EC resident. For non-EC investors, any direct investment, whatever its amount, can now take place freely one month after the receipt of the prior declaration un- less the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Bud- get has formally notified the investor of its decision to postpone its authorization; such a decision is highly exceptional. Foreign companies controlled by EC residents are free to take over any participation in the capital of a French company and are only subject to prior noti- fication to the Treasury. Unless the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and the Budget formally communi- cates to the investor, within 15 days of the receipt of the notification, that he cannot be considered as controlled by EC residents, the investor is allowed to proceed with his acquisition. EC-controlled companies can request that they receive the full benefit of the EC status on a perma- nent basis, if their total turnover exceeds F1 billion a year and if they have completed at least three fiscal years of operations. The permanent acquisition of the EC status eliminates all prior notification re- quirements of an investor. Regardless of the nationality of a nonresident in- vestor, the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget is entitled to issue a finding within one month to prohibit a participation if public health, order, security, or defense is considered to be in danger. Foreign direct investments, whether or not they have been subject to prior notification, must be re- ported to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget within 20 days of their fulfillment. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 169 the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct in- vestments by residents are not restricted, except those located in South Africa, but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy within 20 days if they exceed F 5 million. The liquidation of direct invest- ments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds are repor- ted to the Ministry of Economy if they exceed F 5 million. Foreign issues on the French capital market, ex- cept issues originating in EC countries, are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget.13 Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already officially quoted on a stock ex- change in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign cur- rencies by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, is unrestricted. Resi- dents who do not have a professional activity in exporting, importing, or international trading are required to repatriate and surrender such loans. The application of the controls over direct invest- ment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate busi- ness. All restrictions on lending in French francs to nonresidents were abolished, effective March 9, 1989. Limitations for the purposes of exchange con- trol on the foreign exchange positions of commercial banks were also abolished as of June 1,1989. Regis- tered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. 13Effective January 1, 1990, the exemption from prior authori- zation was extended to residents of all OECD countries. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the regula- tions applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold- filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to value-added tax. Im- ports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) Capital March 9. All exchange restrictions applicable to capital transactions by banks and enterprises en- gaged in international trade were abolished under Decree 89-154, resulting in the elimination of all remaining restrictions on French franc loans to non- residents and the complete liberalization (apart from prudential requirements) of commercial banks' foreign exchange positions. The decree also permitted all residents, including individuals and companies having no international activities, to open ECU-denominated accounts in France. (Effective January 1,1990, those exchange restric- tions that remained in force at the end of 1989, which had prohibited individuals and enterprises not engaged in international activities from holding either monetary assets abroad or accounts in France in foreign currencies other than ECUs, were abol- ished. However, for statistical purposes only, the requirement that all capital transactions with for- eign countries be declared to the Central Bank re- mains in force (only if they exceed a cumulative monthly amount of F 100,000). In addition, resi- dents of all OECD countries were permitted to issue foreign securities in France; previously only resi- dents of EC countries were permitted to do this. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 FRANCE requirement that recognized EC residents had to declare their direct foreign investments in France was eliminated, and direct foreign investments by non-EC residents are deemed approved, unless otherwise notified one month after their declar- ation.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,a which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange mar- ket, and include a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and pri- vate entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Participations, who has partly dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that for respect to the aThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equatorial Guinea. external position of the banks to the BEAC. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized interme- diaries—that is, the Postal Administration and au- thorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresi- dent accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; however, imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to an authorization to import (when the value is more than CFAF 500,000). All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on im- ports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, mineral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to simplify ad- ministrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing, 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 GABON but, with a few exceptions2 established by Minis- terial Order, import authorizations are granted lib- erally in practice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined veg- etable oil are suspended except when they originate from member countries of the UDEAC. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through au- thorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BE AC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Trav- elers to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for chil- dren under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business 2Currently totaling about 30 items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vege- table oil. travel the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of des- tination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 173 transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the con- trol measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations unless they take the form of a capital increase result- ing from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a di- rect investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declaration, the Minis- try may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, Bud- get, and Participations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior ap- 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. including those made by companies in Gabon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. proval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. How- ever, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the opera- tion, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. However, the making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the opera- tion, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether do- mestic or foreign, is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified im- ports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. In addition to fiscal privileges, the Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Eligible companies may receive protec- tion against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies in- vesting in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 GABON gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Re- cherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments May 24. The quantitative restrictions on imports, except those on sugar, vegetable oil, soap, mineral water, and cement, were eliminated. Capital July 6. Foreign companies investing in Gabon were required to offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank, or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the par- ties to these transactions. The Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) conducts a fixing session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks. The exchange rate for customs valuation purposes during the following week is set separately in relation to the interbank market rate. On December 29, 1989, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 8.34 per US$1, and the exchange rate for customs valuation purposes was D 8.28 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day ad- ministration of exchange control is carried out by the CBG. Commercial banks may, without official au- thorization, sell foreign exchange for all current transaction purposes. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain official external obligations incurred before the in- troduction of the floating exchange system (on Jan- uary 20, 1986). Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or in any convertible cur- rency from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with trans- fers from other external accounts, and with the pro- ceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for any payment to residents of other countries, for trans- fers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or se- curity reasons. All other imports are freely permit- ted under open general licenses. Commercial banks are free to make payments for all imports, subject to evidence of shipment. Ad- vance payments in respect of imports may be made freely, provided that commercial banks are satisfied with the bona fide nature of such transactions. Pay- ments for imports may be made in any convertible currency. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c . i .f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempted from this tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions are not restricted, provided that commercial banks are satisfied that the payment is due. Com- mercial banks may sell foreign exchange for travel purposes and for making interest and profit remit- tances without prior approval. Visitors to The Gam- bia do not have to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of forestry products is subject to prior authorization by the Forestry Department. The ex- port of all other goods can generally be made with- out individual licenses, if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the CBG. Export proceeds must be received through a com- mercial bank within six months from the date of exportation in a convertible foreign currency and sold to commercial banks or through transfers from a designated external account. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the import of foreign currency notes, but the importation of Gambian currency notes is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital for the purpose of di- rect equity investment are not restricted, but must be reported to the CBG. Prior approval of the CBG is required in order for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and international mis- sions in The Gambia up to reasonable amounts. Loans and advances by commercial banks to non- resident companies are subject to the authorization of the CBG. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks are subject to limits set by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be sold in the interbank market or of- fered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a daily basis, and the amount held must be reported weekly to the CBG. In addition, two parastatals (The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and The Gambia Telecommunication Company (GamTel)) are permitted temporarily to maintain limited working balances in foreign exchange. The limits must be observed on a weekly basis, and the amounts held must be reported monthly to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered by the GPMB to the Central Bank of The Gambia and by GamTel to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments July I. The customs tariff rates for a large number of goods were changed, resulting in a reduction in the simple average tariff rate ad valorem from 28 percent to 18 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Lux- embourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the ex- change rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Germany maintains the spot exchange rates be- tween the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent2) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bun- desbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29,1989, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 4.959 4.740 100 Danish kroner 26.810 25.630 100 French francs 30.495 29.150 1 Irish pound 2.740 2.619 1,000 Italian lire3 1.4735 1.3065 100 Netherlands guilders 90.770 86.780 100 Spanish pesetas 1.633 1.449 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies, but they may also take place in third currencies such as the U.S. dollar. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits, but they intervene periodically to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign ex- change market of Frankfurt am Main.4 On Decem- aThe term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2The margins of the Italian lira were reduced to plus or minus 2.25 percent, effective January 8, 1990. Effective January 8, 1990, the rates were set at 1.3670 (upper limit) and 1.3065 (lower limit). 4Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ber 29, 1989, the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.6978 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. Forward exchange contracts involving both commercial and financial transactions may be nego- tiated freely by residents and nonresidents in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic for- eign exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of im- ports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation, the Federal Office for Economics, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and For- estry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organiza- tion, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 10,370 statis- tical positions. Their treatment is as follows: Com- modities corresponding to 115 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries in Country List C.5 The import of some 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regard- ing international trade in textiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements of the European Economic Community (EEC) with various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and from Aus- tria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural 5Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Policy (CAP) of the European Communities (EC) covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are sub- ject to variable import levies, which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Com- modity futures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related payments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 5), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents; how- ever, receipts exceeding DM 2,000 on account of services have to be reported for statistical purposes. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; the right of foreign-owned banks to lead-manage foreign deutsche mark bond issues is contingent, however, on reciprocal lead- management rights of German-owned banks in the home countries of the foreign-owned banks operat- ing in Germany. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed- interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no lim- itations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the minimum reserve ratios at the end of 1989 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 12.1 percent, 4.95 percent, and 4.15 percent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respec- tively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are reinvested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 14 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the as- sessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 per- cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 179 under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and ex- ports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. All foreign exchange transactions through the banking system are settled in accordance with the exchange rate determined in auction, which is held once a week (on Friday). To be eligible for the auction, bids must be above US$500. Rates are quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain inconvertible cur- rencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are applied only to transactions under the West African Clear- ing House arrangement. The other quoted incon- vertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Gui- nean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea- Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. The au- thorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. On December 29,1989, the exchange rate in the auction market was (Z303 = US$1. On December 29,1989, a "wholesale" foreign exchange auction system was introduced, under which authorized dealers and eligible forex bureaus were permitted to purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Ghana on behalf of their customers and for their own use. With effect from February 1, 1988, foreign ex- change bureaus were allowed to be opened by any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana. According to the regulations, foreign ex- change bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources of foreign ex- change. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide im- ports and services are allowed to be funded through the bureaus. On December 29, 1989, the average buying and selling exchange rates quoted by the 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zea- land dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. bureaus in terms of U.S. dollars were C347.5 and C362.5, respectively, per US$1. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on pur- chases and repurchases of foreign exchange related to travel, and on exchange purchases for education, medical treatment abroad, and private outward transfers. There are no arrangements for forward exchange market, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports in the Min- istry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regulate all imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. All approved foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be re- ceived in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonres- idents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds—may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. 2Ghana maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, the German Democratic Republic, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 181 These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to non- resident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other Foreign Ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of convert- ible currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." They may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral pay- ments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than re- stricted currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clear- ing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonres- idents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds—may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Namibia (Southwest Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except for four categories (beer and stout, cigarettes, cement pipes, and roofing sheets of asbestos and fiber) and those prohibited for nontrade reasons, are allowed. Effective January 14, 1989, all import-licensing re- quirements were abolished; importers are now re- quired to file an import declaration form through the authorized banks for statistical purposes only and without being subject to approval. Certain im- ports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or, for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks, and normally on a sight basis. For imports valued at more than US$2,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank draf ts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quan- tity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Most foreign ex- change purchases for invisible payments are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent ad valorem, with the exception of invisible payments relating to imports. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally au- thorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f .o .b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. With few exceptions, insur- ance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f .o .b. or c. i. f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian em- ployees and self-employed persons are allowed through foreign exchange bureaus and are normally limited to 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commit- ments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel, education, insurance premiums, and sub- scriptions. Employees in the mining, timber, fish- ing, petroleum, and banking industries are, how- ever, offered a choice between two alternative facilities. Under one of these, they are allowed to transfer 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of duty. Under the other facility, when documen- tary evidence of their commitments outside Ghana can be produced in support of their applications, employees can transfer up to 70 percent of their net annual earnings and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of duty. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, non- resident companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; until ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 GHANA February 1, 1989, however, transfers of profits were being authorized only on a limited basis. Since Feb- ruary 1, 1989, all bona fide requests for transfers of profits and dividends have been eligible for funding through the foreign exchange auction market. The transfer of profits by companies that have been fi- nanced with locally raised capital is not permitted. Foreign exchange for business travel (up to a max- imum of US$3,000 a trip) may be obtained through the foreign exchange auction market; however, for- eign exchange cannot be purchased through the foreign exchange auction market for tourist travel purposes. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign currency that they brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (Southwest Africa) and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of iron and steel scrap. Cocoa and certain other agricultural prod- ucts are exported through the Cocoa Board, and diamonds are exported through the Precious Metal Marketing Corporation. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the pro- ceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds. However, the retention ratio is 45 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the export of elec- tricity are not required to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings were tradi- tionally held in accounts abroad for financing essen- tial imports. On April 28,1989, a new procedure for the repatriation of retained earnings to Ghana was introduced. Under the new procedure, foreign ex- change retention entitlements are credited to the exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are sup- ported by relevant documents, retained export earnings may be sold at the foreign exchange bu- reaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical services or educational expenses abroad, and for any other approved invisible payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be im- ported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange ac- quired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the In- vestment Code. Under the Investment Code of 1981, approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also avail- able for such investments. The Code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be ex- propriated. Where there is a dispute over the amount of compensation, the dispute is settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Invest- ment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, non- interest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. Under a supplementary Investment Code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a Minerals Code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties in respect of importation of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable de- preciation or capital allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 per- cent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 183 requirement of investment capital to qualify under the codes is US$60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and US$100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be ap- proved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evi- dence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are ap- proved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the indi- vidual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in se- curities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio invest- ments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by non- residents. Private sector and commercial bank bor- rowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at US$100,000 or more; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to cer- tain government guidelines. Lending to nonresi- dents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, such industries are allowed to operate foreign ex- change accounts (in addition to their regular reten- tion accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credits and the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and pay- ments out of these accounts. Such accounts have been established for the diamond sector as well as for the fishing and timber companies financed with suppliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Gha- naian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 29. A "wholesale" foreign exchange auc- tion system was introduced, under which autho- rized dealers and eligible foreign exchange bureaus were permitted to purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Ghana on behalf of their customers as well as for their own use. Imports and Import Payments January 14. The import-licensing system was abol- ished, and importers were only required to file an import declaration form through the authorized banks, for statistical purposes. Payments for Invisibles February 1. All bona fide transfers of profit and dividends were made eligible for funding through the foreign exchange auction market. Exports and Export Proceeds April 28. New procedures for the repatriation of retained export earnings to Ghana were introduced, under which foreign exchange entitlements would be credited to the exporters' foreign exchange ac- counts with banks located in Ghana. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. On December 29, 1989, buying and selling rates in the interbank market were Dr 157.317 and Dr 158.263, respectively, per US$1, which is the intervention currency. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies1 are deter- mined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece (the central bank) and the autho- rized commercial banks participate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. The commercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic forward exchange market. Forward cover is extended only to commercial transactions carried out by residents for a maturity period of up to 3 months for imports and 12 months for exports; the exchange rates applied by the commercial banks in these cases are based on those determined daily by the Bank of Greece. Forward rates are also quoted to nonresident banks, provided that rele- vant contracts involve a foreign currency against convertible drachmas for a maturity period of up to 3 months. Exchange risk is undertaken by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the Eu- ropean Currency Unit (ECU) basket, but does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are au- thorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports accord- ing to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in for- eign exchange for invisibles and capital. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, and ECUs. Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be maintained by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (in- cluding seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened for up to 12 months. The Bank of Greece sets an upper limit on interest on these accounts, with the exception of the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and of the rate on nonresidents' deposits, which is negotiable. Accounts in Convertible Drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. The interest rate on time deposits for a period of up to six months is negotiable. The com- mercial banks operating in Greece are allowed to lend to credit institutions abroad in convertible drachmas in amounts not exceeding the total de- posits in convertible drachmas. The maturity of such loans can be up to six months and the interest rate is negotiable. Blocked Accounts. Claims of non-EC (European Communities) residents denominated in drachmas that are not derived from imported foreign currency must be deposited in Blocked Accounts. The with- drawal of funds from these accounts is permitted only with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Pay- ments abroad from these accounts are allowed with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Approval for imports is granted automatically, before or after shipment of goods, by the commer- cial banks, and it implies that the required amount of foreign exchange will be made available. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 185 these products are under surveillance according to EC quotas. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Settlement of the value of im- ported goods must take place within 60 days of the date of arrival at the first Greek port; this provision, however, is in practice not enforced. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are granted automatically for expenses incidental to authorized transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 1,000 for each trip to EC countries and Cyprus, or the equivalent of US$700 for each trip to all other coun- tries. In addition to this allowance, travelers par- ticipating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Travelers may also take with them a max- imum of Dr 10,000 in Greek bank notes. Foreign exchange for business travel is granted without restriction on the number of trips to be taken in a year. For medical treatment abroad, the required foreign exchange is made available. For studies abroad, the amount covering living ex- penses is granted; in addition, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition fees, books, etc. Nonresidents leaving Greece may take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of US$1,000 within a year of their arrival in Greece, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek bank notes. Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capi- tal transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Foreign banks operating in Greece are permitted to repatriate their profits, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 45 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their disbursements and ex- penses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange, but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 10,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of US$1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. Travelers may also bring in a maximum of Dr 100,000 in Greek bank notes. Capital Direct investments in Greece by non-EC resi- dents are subject to prior approval, and the repatria- tion of capital and capital gains is permitted after three years following the realization of the invest- ment. Interest and dividends may be repatriated after the first fiscal year. Investments in real estate in Greece by non-EC residents are permitted, and the proceeds of liquidation can be repatriated after five years following the conversion of the foreign cur- rency into drachmas. Direct investments by residents of Greece in EC countries are permitted. Investments in real estate and in securities by residents of Greece in EC coun- tries are subject to approval until June 30,1990, with the exception of investments in securities issued by the European Communities and the European In- vestment Bank, up to a ceiling of ECU 50 million a year. Direct investments and investments in real estate or in securities by residents of Greece in non-EC countries require prior approval. Greek firms are allowed to borrow in foreign ex- change without prior approval, provided that the maturity of the loans is at least six months. In the case of exporting firms, the maturity of the loans can be less than six months, provided that such firms service their loans with their export earnings. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad, which do not fall into the above categories and do not qualify as direct investments, are subject to prior approval. Transfers abroad of the liquidation proceeds of listed and unlisted securities, as well as treasury ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 GREECE bills and long-term government bonds and bonds of public sector entities, are permitted, provided that foreign currency was used for their purchases. The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of un- listed securities by non-EC residents is subject to prior approval. Legislative Decree 2687/1953, Presidential Decree 207/1987, and Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 govern direct investments. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sov- ereigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an autho- rized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a spe- cial license; licenses are normally issued to im- porters for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) Payments for Invisibles December 29. The exchange allowance for personal travel was increased from the equivalent of ECU 840 to ECU 1,000 a person a trip to EC member coun- tries, and from US$600 to US$700 a person a trip to other countries. Capital March 9. The maturity of loans in foreign ex- change by contracting by exporting firms was per- mitted to be less than six months. July 1. Direct investments by residents of Greece in EC countries were fully liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of inputs by local manufac- turers certified by the Industrial Development Cor- poration, payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs, remittances to cover the expenses of university education abroad and expenses related to medical services, transactions of the Grenada De- velopment Bank with the European Investment Bank, and transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordinance. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the Ministry of Finance. The Min- istry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Trade Divi- sion of the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. be made either through External Accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts are main- tained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies, with transfers from other External Ac- counts, with bank interest (payable on External Ac- counts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any over- drafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Prescription of Currency Imports and Import Payments Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must JThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas; cigarettes; processed pork products; curry powder; war toys; diothene plastic sheets and corrugated- cardboard for the banana industry; solar water 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 GRENADA heaters; electric accumulators for automobiles; and aluminum windows, doors, and associated items. Certain other commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions and require an import license. Payments for documented imports are free of re- strictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval by this Ministry. Imports of equipment and spare parts are exempted from import duties. Also exempted are imports by the commodity associations in cases where imports are intended for quality improve- ments in the growing or packaging of bananas, co- coa, and nutmeg. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c.i.f. value, with the exception of imports of raw materials for use in local manufacturing of finished products, which are subject to an 8 percent value- added tax. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM are subject to special sur- charges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for education, medical treatment, gifts, family mainte- nance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, proceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for a few types of pay- ments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation nor- mally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, pro- vided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in ex- cess of EC$5,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not de- ducted from the travel allocation. Nonresident trav- elers may export any foreign currency they pre- viously brought in, with the approval of the Minis- try of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. There are no formal reg- ulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean cur- rency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depos- itory in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain al- lowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresi- dents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local cur- rency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresi- dents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 189 may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by au- thorized dealers to finance their domestic opera- tions requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Li- censes to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement April 18. Remittances to cover the cost of medical services and related expenses and imports of inputs by local manufacturers certified by the Industrial Development Corporation were exempted from the foreign exchange tax. Imports and Import Payments April 28. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM were subject to special sur- charges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. The customs tariffs on biscuits, do- mestic refrigerators, electric accumulators, chairs, and mattresses were abolished. May 5. Traveling bags, satchels, and accessories were subject to an import license. June 23. Beer and malt became subject to an im- port license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains a unified, interbank exchange system under which the exchange rate of the quetzal is allowed to be determined in response to market forces. Intervention by the Bank of Guatemala is limited to maintaining orderly de- velopments in the market. The Bank of Guatemala buys and sells foreign exchange at the prevailing interbank market rate and sets a daily reference rate that is used for government transactions and for calculating foreign trade taxes. The reference rate is based on the weighted average of the exchange rate of the previous week or, in case the change in the exchange rate on any one day exceeds Q 0.05 per US$1, the prevailing rate on the previous day. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Guatemala in terms of the U.S. dollar were Q 3.44 - US$1 and Q 3.48 = US$1, respectively. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala (e.g., servicing of its external debt disbursed before June 6, 1986), which have no eco- nomic effect, are conducted at an accounting ex- change rate of Q1 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dollar1 are officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The central bank does not issue new exchange rate guarantees, but it honors guarantees granted prior to end October 1989. There are no other arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherland guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Exports of goods must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are unrestricted and do not require registration or a license. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Imports of cocoa are prohibited from all sources. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased at the inter- bank exchange market rate. Petroleum is imported at a preferential rate of exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, international credit card payments, and others are permitted without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special ex- port license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is con- tingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days of the date of issuance. In the case of exports to Central America, there are clearing arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 191 own national currencies, Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA), U.S. dollars, or barter. Certain exports are subject to export taxes, which are planned to be abolished by the end of March 1990. Capital All capital transactions take place without limita- tions. All investment by foreign or foreign- controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petro- leum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold in coins or bullion either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artis- tic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is pro- hibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement October 25. The Bank of Guatemala ceased to provide exchange rate guarantees for import letters of credit. November 3. A floating exchange rate system was introduced. The Bank of Guatemala ceased to provide exchange rate guarantees for prefinancing of exports. Imports and Import Payments January 11. Prior registration of imports with the Bank of Guatemala was no longer required. November 18. The first stage of a reform of the customs tariff regime was introduced, whereby the customs tariffs on some 240 items, accounting for about 10 percent of the items subject to customs tariffs, were reduced to the range of 2-37 percent from the range of 0-150 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is set in weekly fixing sessions. The private sector and public enterprises, through the inter- mediation of commercial banks, may sell and pur- chase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, except for limitations placed on pur- chases for tourist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by nonresident workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar; the rates for other curren- cies are determined on the basis of their U.S. dollar rates in international markets. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. Settlements un- der the bilateral payments agreement with the Peo- ple's Republic of China are effected in renminbi at the rate resulting from the current GF/U.S. dollar and U.S. dollar/yuan rates. On December 29, 1989, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was GF 620.00 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible cur- rencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts The opening of deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency by residents at the domestic commercial banks is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies, and Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Convertible Accounts Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. Such ac- counts are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of its origin. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in convertible Guinean francs. Such ac- counts may be debited freely and converted by com- mercial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. These ac- counts carry an interest premium of 2 percentage points over deposit accounts in Guinean francs. Imports and Import Payments Almost all products may be freely imported into Guinea (except armaments, munitions, and narco- tics). Petroleum products may be imported only by the public sector. Mining companies may, however, import crude oil directly. All imports require authorization, which is granted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank. There are two types of authorization: that given for imports with access to foreign ex- change provided at rates determined during weekly fixing sessions, and that given for imports financed with own foreign exchange (autorisation sans achat de devises). To obtain authorization, importers are re- quired to fill out a form (descriptif d'importation), on 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 193 which they must provide information on products to be imported, their prices, and the terms of financing. For imports with access to the auction market, authorization is given only after the prices and quality of products and the terms of financing (in the case of import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through com- mercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by four "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Baux- ite Company; AREDOR, the diamond company; and AUG, the gold company) and foreign embassies. All commodities are subject to customs tariffs. Rice is subject to a 10 percent turnover tax; a 5 per- cent tariff is levied on certain primary foodstuffs, including edible oils, wheat flour, sugar, meat, and fowl; all other imports are subject to a 10 percent tariff. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 per- cent is imposed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 50-130 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages and certain wine and spirits. The import tariff pay- able by the two mixed enterprises in the mining sector is subject to special agreements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require the authorization of the Central Bank. Payments for freight and insur- ance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with com- panies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to US$800 a person a trip, with a maximum of four trips a calendar year; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official mis- sions are permitted an allowance of US$90 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents may be granted foreign ex- change for medical care abroad or they may be per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts deter- mined on the merits of the case; for officially recog- nized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship—that is, US$100 a month —but students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to US$150. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved for- eign investments may be transferred abroad, and that certified dividends and royalties may be trans- ferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings, and only for those contracts ap- proved by the Ministry of Labor. The export of Gui- nean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require domiciliation with a commer- cial bank and submission of export description in order to (1) permit the Treasury to levy certain du- ties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (2) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (3) prevent the ex- port of capital. For the following commodities, special authoriza- tion from designated agencies is required: wild ani- mals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of his- toric or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, ba- nanas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to re- tain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements, and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to resi- dents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry; however, residents must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days, with an option for deposit in resident foreign currency accounts. Non- resident travelers may re-export the foreign ex- change they declared upon entry. The import of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 GUINEA The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applica- ble to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is in- vested over a three-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of 8 to 10 years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of par- ticular importance to the economy. The minimum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have controlling interests in enterprises requiring foreign invest- ment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold The Central Bank purchases gold from individ- uals, who may choose to be paid in Guinean francs or up to 50 percent in foreign currency and the rest in local currency. The proceeds from gold sales in foreign currencies may be credited to the convert- ible acounts in Guinean francs, and the funds with- drawn from these accounts may be used only for import payments. Guinea has four issues of commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Furthermore, resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than artisanal gold or jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments February 1. Prior authorization of import declara- tions by the Central Bank was no longer required. March 13. The following modifications were made in the import tax regime: (1) rice was subject to a 10 percent turnover tax; (2) imports of lemonades, carbonated beverages, and other nonalcoholic bev- erages were subject to a surtax of 50 percent; and (3) the rate of surtax applicable to wine and spirits was raised to 130 percent from 40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. Guinea-Bissau follows a flexible ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Guinea-Bissau peso in terms of the SDR is ad- justed at relatively short intervals on the basis of estimated domestic price developments. Daily buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within margins of 2.25 percent of the SDR rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso. On December 29, 1989, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was PG 1,986.0 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the cen- tral bank). Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings are to be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Algeria, but this agree- ment has been inoperative since 1981. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Before February 1989, all imports were subject to prior licensing. Licenses were issued by the Minis- try of Economic Coordination, Commerce, and Tourism in line with availability of foreign exchange and on the basis of a program agreed between the central bank and the Ministry. Effective February 1, 1989, an open general license system was intro- duced. Under the new system, import licenses are automatically issued upon request, after verification of the invoiced prices, except for petroleum imports and products on a negative list. Imports of petro- leum products are a state monopoly. Private sector importers with valid import licenses may freely provide their foreign exchange to finance their imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Con- trol. Foreign exchange allocations for many pay- ments for invisibles, including those for tourism, for purchases of stocks, bonds, and real estate, and for profit remittances, have been temporarily sus- pended. Transfers of pension payments are autho- rized in accordance with specific criteria. Although no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought with domestic cur- rency. Airline companies may transfer in foreign exchange the difference between their payments and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These trans- fers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to the equivalent of PG 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted up to the equivalent of PG 17,100 each month (PG 13,800 for high school students). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 80,000. Remittances to close relatives (parents and children) living abroad are permitted. Foreign travelers may take out any remaining foreign cur- rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only export- ers registered with the Ministry of Economic Coor- dination, Commerce, and Tourism may obtain ex- port licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Until August 1986, exports of ground- nuts and cashew nuts were reserved for the Govern- ment and were effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMIM. Other products ex- ported solely by the Government included palm 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 GUINEA-BISSAU kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and par- quet flooring. On August 13,1986, the Government authorized the private sector to engage in exportation of any product. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 50 percent of proceeds to pay for eligible merchan- dise imports. Since May 4, 1987, foreign exchange earnings may be surrendered to the banking system without their sources being identified. Private ex- porters of nontraditional products are authorized to use up to the equivalent of their total foreign ex- change receipts, less an export duty, to pay for mer- chandise imports. All exports are subject to a general customs fee of 1 percent. During 1987, the effective export tax rate on cashew nuts was reduced in stages, to 46 percent from 80 percent, ad valorem, and all other export taxes were abolished. The export tax on cashew nuts was further reduced to 41 percent in 1988 and to 34 percent in 1989. A special regime applies to ex- ports destined for countries of the Economic Com- munity of West African States (ECOWAS); they are exempt from the 1 percent general customs fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, which is being reviewed, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capi- tal transfers associated with emigration are autho- rized by "transitional norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, ex- cept when authorized by the head of state and the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments February 1. An open general license system was introduced, under which all imports were allowed without restriction, with the exception of petroleum and products on a negative list. February 1. Price controls on sugar, cooking oil, and fertilizers imported by the public sector were abolished. April 1. The state import monopoly on cereal was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The rate of export tax on cashew nuts was reduced to 34 percent ad valorem. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar. Although the exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is officially determined on the basis of its fixed rela- tionship to a basket of currencies,1 in practice it is adjusted to maintain a certain level against the U.S. dollar. The intervention currency of the Guyana dol- lar is the U.S. dollar. Effective April 1, 1989, the official rate for the Guyana dollar, which is applica- ble to all foreign exchange transactions, was changed from G$10.0 = US$1 to G$33.0 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at different rates on the purchase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange risk operates in the official sector in re- spect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in the blocked accounts. (See section on Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving certain current payments up to specified amounts is delegated, in principle, to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other payments require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection is responsible for issuing import and export licenses, but import li- censes involving use of official foreign exchange require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are consid- ered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency3 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresi- dents and with transfers from other External Ac- counts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to resi- dents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved se- curities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides full ex- change rate guarantee for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984, partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$5.0 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and end-January 1987, partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$10 = US$1) for deposits made 1 Since January 1984, the currency basket has been defined to include pounds sterling, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, French francs, and Netherlands guilders. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 3Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GUYANA between January 1987 and end-March 1989, and no exchange rate guarantee for the deposits made after March 1989. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain products are also pro- hibited from all sources. Import prohibitions are currently applicable only to certain categories of food items. Permissible imports are subject to indi- vidual licensing, but the following commodities are exempted: passengers' baggage, household effects and personal effects, bona fide patterns and sam- ples that have a stipulated f .o .b. value, parcel post items of a certain value imported by individuals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. Effective October 1,1988, import licenses are not required for goods originating and consigned from CARICOM states. Import licenses are granted on a priority basis, as follows: (1) petroleum products; (2) raw materials for the manufacture of essential items; (3) essential items; (4) raw materials for manufacturers serving the export markets and the essential services in industry; (5) equipment and materials for sawmills in the timber industry; (6) commodities for hatch- eries; (7) spare parts; (8) importation by interna- tional organizations and diplomatic personnel; and (9) drugs. However, an application for an import license will not normally be approved for com- modities when similar ones are produced locally and at reasonable levels to supply domestic needs or sustain exportation. Import licenses are issued in respect of certain specified commodities only to the government cor- poration that has been identified to procure them centrally. When the responsibility of handling im- ports of any commodity has been given to a single government agency with a view to eliminating du- plication of ordering between such agencies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. A similar course of action is adopted when stan- dardization of commodities is involved. As a gen- eral rule, licenses are issued only to government corporations for the procurement of supplies for the retail and distributive sectors of the economy on a national, rather than a local, basis. Licenses are not normally made available to private sector concerns or individuals for goods to be disposed of by retail trade, other than to dealers in spare parts. Import licenses continue to be approved for specialized re- quirements of government and private concerns connected with sugar, bauxite, rice, timber, and manufacturing industries, as the case may be. There are no import quotas, but the granting of import licenses is subject in large measure to the availability of foreign exchange. All applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domes- tic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Com- mercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions not involving use of official foreign exchange (i.e., "no-foreign cur- rency" import transactions) are permitted without restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. On June 1,1988, import licenses with respect to no-foreign currency import transac- tions for the following goods were abolished: (1) goods imported by individuals for personal use; (2) machinery and equipment to be used in pursuit of self-employment; and (3) goods to be used by noncommercial, nonagricultural, nonindustrial, or social organizations. Since September 1988, import licenses for the remaining categories of no-foreign currency imports are granted automatically if the transactions are bona fide and the documentary requirements are met. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is G$2,475 a person and is not cumula- tive. The allocation for education depends on each circumstance and is granted in terms of foreign currency needs. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of C$165 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding C$200; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of up to G$2,475 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Non- resident travelers may, within one month of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpo- ration, and bauxite and alumina, only by the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agen- cies. Rice may be imported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 199 supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding C$200 in value. A foreign ex- change retention scheme permits exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The reten- tion ratio is 100 percent for bauxite, 15 percent for sugar, and 10 percent for other products. Retained foreign exchange may be used relatively liberally for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a value of C$200 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capi- tal. Such approval is normally given for direct in- vestments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remit- ted, and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transac- tions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recip- ient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of C$825 for each mem- ber of a family unit; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of C$50,000 a family unit at the time of emigration, and C$30,000 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enter- prises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the fi- nancing of specific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is sub- ject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$12,000, C$9,000, and C$3,000 for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The exchange rate system was unified, with the abolishments of the bank window rate and the special rates for gold and diamond, and the official rate was changed from G$10.0 = US$1 to G$33.0 = US$1. November 28. An act providing for the licensing of authorized dealers to buy and sell foreign curren- cies at freely determined rates was promulgated. (The act would come into effect by the order of the Minister of Finance.) Exports and Export Proceeds March 31. The retention ratios under the foreign exchange retention scheme were unified to 10 per- cent for all exporters other than bauxite. August 1. The retention percentage under the for- eign exchange retention scheme for the sugar in- dustry was raised to 15 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, the external value of which is defined in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the relation- ship of G 5 = US$1. Both the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally ac- cepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Sales of foreign exchange are sub- ject to an average local tax of 0.03 percent. The official rate applies, on the receipts side, to (1) proceeds from exports of sugar, (2) foreign ex- change receipts of public enterprises, (3) official external loans and grants and transfers received by exchange houses, (4) 50 percent of all other export proceeds, and (5) 50 percent of all foreign exchange received by maritime agencies and nongovernmen- tal organizations. The official rate applies, on the payments side, to (1) public debt-service payments, (2) payments for imports of petroleum products, (3) sugar, (4) wheat, and (5) certain public sector payments. A different rate, established freely in a parallel mar- ket, consisting of a limited number of authorized ex- change houses, is used for all other transactions. On December 29, 1989, the exchange rate in this market was in the range of G 7.45-G 7.60 per US$1. Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; these accounts may not be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts by maritime agencies and nongovernmen- tal organizations. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 22, 1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange sys- tem is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank). The tax code provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank estab- lished in Haiti.1 Aside from this requirement, there aAs of the end of 1989, the tax had not been enforced. is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Seven products (beans, maize, millet, rice, sugar, chicken parts, and pork) are subject to licensing requirements without quantitative restrictions. By a decree of February 10, 1987, a new tariff structure was introduced that eliminated all specific duties and established new ad valorem tariff rates of be- tween zero and 40 percent, with the exception of five products (rice, maize, millet, flour, and gas- oline). Gasoline is subject to a tariff of 57.8 percent, and rice, maize, millet, and flour are subject to a rate of 50 percent. The average tariff rate is about 20 per- cent, with the tariffs on equipment, raw materials, and some inputs at 10 percent or lower. Phar- maceutical imports are exempt from import duties. Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are calculated on the basis of a conversion rate of exchange that is 30 percent above (in terms of gourdes) the official exchange rate. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent. The fee is payable in Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. In accordance with a decree of July 7,1989, the export proceeds and foreign exchange receipts of maritime agencies and nongovernmental organiza- tions are required to be surrendered to the central bank through the commercial banks. Exchange houses are required to surrender all foreign ex- change transfers to the central bank. The central bank determines the proportion of the surrendered foreign exchange that is returned to the commercial banks; on December 31, 1989, the proportion was 50 percent, of which 15 percent was returned to exporters by the commercial banks. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. Under a law published on June 4, 1984, the customs administration will refuse export 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 201 approval unless such drafts are cleared by the cen- tral bank. There are no export taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 250 on tickets and an airport tax of G 75. They must also buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permit- ted, but imports of capital may be made freely. For- eign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decrees of March 13, 1963, October 8, 1969, and Decem- ber 31, 1984, and requires prior government ap- proval. Permission is normally not granted to non- residents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6,1973, private banks oper- ating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities for local customers in the form of domestic assets. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domes- tically and to export gold in the form of coins, min- eral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require, in addition, prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry before customs clearance. However, com- mercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement September 29. Commercial banks were authorized to open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; such accounts may not be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad re- ceived by exchange houses, or with receipts by mar- itime agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Exports and Export Proceeds July 7. All export proceeds and foreign exchange receipts by maritime agencies and nongovernmen- tal organizations were required to be surrendered to the commercial banks, which in turn would transfer these receipts to the central bank. Exchange houses were also required to surrender all transfers re- ceived from abroad to the central bank. October 1. A conversion exchange rate that is 30 percent (in terms of gourdes) above the official exchange rate was introduced for the purpose of customs tariff and value-added tax assessment of all imports. October 9. The central bank decided that 50 per- cent of the foreign exchange surrendered would be returned to the commercial banks, and authorized the commercial banks to return to exporters 15 per- cent of the foreign exchange it returned to the com- mercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 2989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respectively, per US$1. The buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the cur- rency concerned against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets.1 Separate exchange rates arise from an arrangement permitting exporters to Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala to transfer their foreign exchange proceeds to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control regula- tions is under the control of the Central Bank of Honduras. The External Financing Department of the Central Bank issues import and export permits. Import permits can be used within nine months of the date of issuance, or up to 12 months under special circumstances. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Affective March 13, 1990, a new exchange rate system came into operation. With the exception of debt-service payments, including debt conversions by the Central Government, and transactions with certain Central American countries, all permit- ted foreign exchange transactions are conducted in an interbank market in which the exchange rate is allowed to float within margins of 2.5 percent above or below a reference exchange rate. The reference exchange rate was initially set at L 4 = US$1. The reference exchange rate, which is determined by the Central Bank of Honduras, is adjusted periodically, taking into account market conditions as reflected in the movement of the weighted average of exchange rates prevailing in the transactions of the commercial banks and other macroeconomic factors. Debt- service payments, including debt conversions by the Central Government, continue to be conducted at the official rate of L 2 = US$1. The self-financed barter and compensation mechanisms and the CETRA schemes were abolished. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. In addition, a bilateral clearinghouse ar- rangement operates for transactions with Guate- mala, under which outstanding balances are re- quired to be settled every two months. The Central Bank of Honduras authorizes imports under this arrangement only when exports to Guatemala have taken place. Trade transactions with Nicaragua are carried out under a bilateral credit agreement. Pay- ments to and receipts from Mexico in respect of merchandise trade and invisibles are settled on a four-month basis in U.S. dollars under an agree- ment between the Central American central banks and the Bank of Mexico. Beginning August 1983, all lempira-denominated payments amounting to at least L 1,500 processed through the Central American Clearing House in respect of trade and trade-related transactions with Mexico, Colombia, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) re- quire prior authorization from the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for all imports in excess of L 5,000 and are issued by the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE). There is a list of products that can be imported with foreign exchange allocated by the Central Bank and a list of products that can be imported with the Transferable Certificates of Foreign Exchange (CETRAS). Products that can be imported with for- eign exchange allocated by the monetary authorities include milk, seeds, wheat, fertilizers, medicines, corn, rice, organic and inorganic chemical inputs used in the production of medicines, agricultural machinery, oil, tires and parts for public transporta- tion and tracks, inputs for the mass communication industry and public sector imports. Products that can be imported with CETRAS include textiles, ma- chinery, specialized tools, packing sacks, animal and vegetable oils, grains, oxides, different kinds of glasses, metal bars and rods, and cattle. Products 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 203 not included in these lists can be imported only on a self-financed basis, including imports directly bought by exporters using the permitted retained portion of their foreign exchange receipts. Imports of corn, wheat, beans, rice, soya, and cattle require a license issued by the Honduran Institute of Agri- cultural Marketing (IHMA) before an import permit can be authorized by DERFE. Imports of some agri- cultural inputs (such as fertilizers and pesticides) require a license issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources. Imports of arms and similar items re- quire a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. The waiting period for self-financed, including CETRA-financed, imports has been modified period- ically. At the end of 1989, the waiting period was between 30 and 90 days;2 in addition, 10 days were required for processing of information. Imports may be checked for appropriate pricing, and import pre- payments are subject to certain restrictions regard- ing the means of settlement. Depending on the foreign exchange situation, the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank may subject the allocation of foreign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of policy- determined priorities.3 A guarantee deposit of up to 100 percent may be required against requests to open sight letters of credit for import payments; the deposits are held with commercial banks. Importers are also required to deposit with the Central Bank the lempira equivalent of requests for official for- eign exchange that are not granted within a spec- ified waiting period. A system of "Transferable Certificates of Foreign Exchange" (CETRAS) operates to promote exports and encourage the repatriation of proceeds from these exports. Under this system, the commercial banks issue CETRAS to exporters when they sell export proceeds to the banks. Since July 1989, the proportion of CETRAS issued per dollar of foreign exchange receipts has been set at 50 percent for all exports. CETRAS are denominated in lempiras and provide the holder with preferential access to for- eign exchange at the official rate. They may be used during the first four months from the day of issu- ance to register under the system of "own foreign 2As from January 30, 1990, the waiting period was shortened to 15-30 days; effective March 13, 1990, both schemes were abolished. 3The Central Bank is authorized to allocate foreign exchange in accordance with the following priorities: external financial pay- ments; essential consumer items; health products; educational materials; fuel and lubricants; raw materials; agricultural and industrial inputs; machinery, equipment, and spare parts; and other goods and services. exchange" imports and to request foreign exchange at the official rate for payments for imports, ser- vices, or other purposes approved by the Central Bank of Honduras. During the subsequent three- month period, CETRAS may be utilized to purchase foreign exchange for the transactions authorized by the Central Bank. Unutilized CETRAS will lose their value seven months after they are issued. Since Sep- tember 1988, the commercial banks have been per- mitted to intermediate the sale of CETRAS from ex- porters to importers, for their own account and at their own risk, subject to a 5 percent commission over an exchange differential per transaction. Banks are required to post daily the buying and selling rates of CETRAS. Since July 1989, the CETRAS are not allowed to be transferred outside the banking system. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs duty, ranging from 1 percent to 90 percent.4 Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duty ranging from zero to 35 percent. Certain goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 percent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 percent of the f .o .b. value. In addition, most im- ports are subject to an import service fee of 5 per- cent. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports with a value exceeding US$5,000 require a license and are subject to prior autho- rization of the DERFE. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered either to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions, or be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commercial banks. Subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 60 per- cent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports. The withdrawal of dollar- denominated deposits is subject to compliance with the procedures on the use of foreign exchange. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made within 90 days following the negotiation of export documents. The banks are required to trans- fer at least 30 percent of their holdings of foreign exchange proceeds from exports to the Central Bank. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute (!HCAFE). Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by IHMA, and lumber exports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation Effective March 13, 1990, this range was changed to 2 to 40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 HONDURAS (COHDEFOR). Exports of bananas are subject to a tax at the rate of L1 for each 40-pound box, but the tax is refunded for exports exceeding a certain ceiling.5 The export promotion law enables nontraditional exports to receive freely negotiable tax credit certifi- cates (CEFEX), ranging from 5 percent to 15 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports.6 CETRAS are made available under a system set up to promote exports and encourage the repatriation of their proceeds (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of L5,000 require prior approval of the Central Bank, and all buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating the purpose for which the funds will be used.7 Within this limit, persons trav- eling abroad may purchase foreign currency in the CETRAS market for up to US$2,500 a person. No restrictions exist on the import of foreign bank notes by travelers. There are delays in the provision of foreign exchange for the transfers of dividends and profits. Proceeds from invisibles are either subject to a surrender requirement or must be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commercial banks. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and the approval of the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or simi- lar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar fi- nancial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretariat of Coordination, Planning, and Budget (SECPLAN), and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sec- tor requires approval by the Central Bank. External 5Effective March 13,1990, temporary export taxes of 12 percent and 9 percent were levied on traditional exports and nontradi- tional exports, respectively. 6Effective March 13, 1990, the fiscal incentives given to non- traditional exports through the CEFEX were abolished. Effective March 13,1990, this limit was increased to US$3,000. debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the ser- vicing of duly registered and approved external debt only. The contracting of external financing must conform with specified priorities. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; the reserve requirement for certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and more is 20 percent, and 15 percent for savings deposits in foreign currency with sav- ings and loan associations. Commercial banks are required to transfer foreign exchange holdings in excess of specified limits to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments February 13. The waiting period for granting im- port authorizations for self-financed, including CETRA-financed, imports was reduced temporarily to 5 days from 30-120 days. April 4. The waiting period for granting import authorizations for self-financed, including CETRA- financed, imports was extended to 30-120 days for most product categories, and the 5-day waiting period established in February was maintained only for high-priority imports. July 6. The use of the Central Bank's foreign ex- change for imports of goods by the private sector was restricted to a specified list of products. The CETRAS generated by the export of goods can be used only for imports of products on a special list, travel expenses up to US$2,500, and other specified expenditures. The products not included in the above-mentioned lists can be imported only on the basis of self-financed mechanisms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 205 Exports and Export Proceeds January 6. The proportion of CETRAS issued was raised to 40 percent from 15 percent for traditional exports, identical to the proportion applicable to nontraditional exports. Exceptions would apply to coffee, meat, lumber, sugar, and cotton, in which the proportion of CETRAS received by the exporter is 20 percent, while another 20 percent is retained by the commercial bank to be used for specific types of imports requiring the previous authorization of the Central Bank. July 6. The waiting period for granting import authorization for self-financed, including CETRA- financed, imports, was modified to 30-90 days. July 6. The proportion of CETRAS issued was raised to 50 percent from 40 percent for all exports, and their transferability outside the banking system was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Starting on Octo- ber 17, 1983, certificates of indebtedness denomi- nated in Hong Kong dollars and issued by the Gov- ernment Exchange Fund, which the two note- issuing commercial banks are required to hold as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues, are issued only against payment of U.S. dollars at a fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 = US$1; payments by the Exchange Fund on surrender of certificates of indebtedness to it when the note issue declines are also made in U.S. dollars at the same exchange rate. By arrangement, other licensed banks also pay or receive U.S. dollars at this same rate when they draw bank notes from or surrender them to the note-issuing banks. With these exceptions, the ex- change rate for the Hong Kong dollar is freely deter- mined by supply and demand in the foreign ex- change market, though influenced by the fixed rate that applies to note-issue transactions. The au- thorities do, however, retain a capability to inter- vene in the market. On December 31, 1989, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was HK$7.807 = US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on pri- vate sector initiatives and the Government has no official role. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director- General of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from licensing control, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, and textiles that are subject to licensing control for surveillance reasons. Imports of rice are subject to a quota system operated by the Trade Department. With a few exceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permit- ted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a small number of items to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations and for health, safety, or security rea- sons. Textiles are also subject to licensing control because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of cer- tain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes, trav- eler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license is required before any com- pany, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do banking business in Hong Kong. Subject to certain conditions, an overseas bank may establish a representative office in Hong Kong and may also register a subsidiary as a deposit-taking company. A deposit-taking company may not, however, conduct banking business or use the word "bank" in its title. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form (including 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 207 finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Fo rint. The exchange rate of the forint against curren- cies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)1 and Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of eleven currencies;2 the weights are adjusted an- nually and reflect the currency composition of Hun- gary's foreign trade turnover (export receipts from and import payments to) with the nonruble cur- rency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, notably on the basis of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. Exchange rates are quoted on a daily basis by the National Bank of Hungary for 21 convertible curren- cies,3 and the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buying and selling rates are set with a spread of 0.1 percent around the middle rate for each currency.4 Rates for other currencies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for cur- rencies included in the basket to which the forint is pegged are based on the day's exchange rates in major international markets. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on Decem- ber 29,1989 were Ft 62.48 and Ft 62.61, respectively, per US$1. Forward exchange rates are quoted by the Na- tional Bank of Hungary in respect of 21 officially aThe member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). In addition to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and trav- eler's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas. At the end of 1989, the exchange rate quotation for traveler's checks in Yugoslav dinars was terminated. 4The spread of 0.2 percent between buying and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For checks and bank notes, a 6 percent spread is maintained between buying and selling rates. quoted convertible currencies and convertible currency-based clearing currencies. Forward rates are quoted according to international methods, that is, based on the daily official rates and swap dif- ferentials between the forint and other currencies for periods of 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. The National Bank buys and sells foreign currencies from and to Hungarian commercial banks.5 The largest portion of Hungary's trade and finan- cial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC), and with Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, and Democratic Kampuchea in clearing rubles. Official exchange rates for the transferable ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted daily by the National Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of December 1989, the buying and selling rates for the forint against 1 transferable ruble were Ft 27.47 and Ft 27.53, respectively. The same rates applied to the clearing ruble. The National Bank also quotes ex- change rates for the forint against the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements; for exam- ple, international travel, expenses of diplomatic rep- resentation, and scholarships6 are based on multi- lateral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign ex- change regulations is vested in the Minister of Fi- nance. Related functions are exercised by the Minis- ter through the National Bank, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or dele- gated to other institutions. The National Bank may 5Effective January 1,1989, commercial banks are authorized to quote forward rates for Hungarian enterprises on the basis of the forward quotations of the National Bank of Hungary. The Bank is ready to quote rates for commercial banks up to the amount of their net position arising from the deals of the commercial banks with Hungarian enterprises having foreign exchange receipts or expenditures arising from foreign activities (foreign trade, tour- ism, transportation, etc.). 6 A commission of 3 percent applies to purchases from tourists of bank notes in the currencies of member countries of the CMEA. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 209 entrust other agencies, such as banking institutions and travel agencies, with the performance of spec- ified tasks. The Central European International Bank Ltd., Inter-Europa, Ltd., Unicbank Budapest, Ltd., and Citibank Budapest, Ltd., are exempt from Hungarian foreign exchange regulations and re- strictions in respect of authorized activities. The regulations governing foreign trade in con- vertible currencies were liberalized in 1988. Since January 1988, all economic organizations in Hun- gary have been entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies after having been registered by the Ministry of Trade. The registration takes place automatically at the request of the organ- ization concerned and on the basis of a declaration by the company that organizational and personnel conditions are fulfilled. If legal requirements are met, the Ministry has no right to reject the registra- tion application, which must be processed within 30 days. Each economic unit may be registered as con- ducting foreign trade activities (export and import) in respect of any product and service except for those specified on the negative lists. The latter goods and services may be traded only upon formal authorization. Private persons can also be autho- rized to carry out foreign trade activities. Foreign trading rights concerning products on the negative list and for private persons are granted within 60 days. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hun- gary has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.7 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may maintain convertible currency accounts at the au- 7At the end of December 1989, Hungary had bilateral pay- ments agreements with Albania, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic. Hungary also had trade agreements with bilat- eral payments features for certain commodities with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. Except for Albania, the People's Republic of China, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U.S. dollars. Settlements with the People's Republic of China were in clearing Swiss francs; and with Albania, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, in clearing rubles. thorized commercial banks. The accounts carry tax- free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in international markets. The interest rates on deposits are based on the international financial market rates depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Payments in f orints to nonresidents can be depos- ited in forint accounts for nonresidents at the autho- rized commercial banks. Residents may also open accounts at authorized commercial banks in foreign currencies. Foreign ex- change earned from creative, inventive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, compos- ers, and performing artists), honoraria, prizes and awards, specified fees, winnings on foreign ex- change lotteries, VAT refunds received in foreign exchange, and money received from foreigners as a gift may be deposited in these accounts. Effective September 18, 1989, up to 100 percent of income or assets in convertible currencies from these sources may be deposited in these accounts except for the proceeds of exports by small-scale traders and pri- vate enterprises for which up to 10 percent may be deposited. No limits apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of countries ac- counting in rubles. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem payments, wages and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholar- ships, and artistic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convertible and CMEA currencies. No authorization is required for the use of ac- counts of residents in foreign currencies. With- drawals of convertible currency deposits can be made in any convertible currency, or in forint. CMEA balances can only be withdrawn in a CMEA currency or in forint. The deposits may be used by the depositor and his/her family members for for- eign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Konsumex, Intertourist, and other specialized shops, or directly from abroad against payment in convertible currencies. Deposits earn nontaxable in- terest at rates prevailing on international markets. Imports and Exports A range of goods, principally spare parts and raw materials on a positive import list, may be imported without a license and without being subject to a quota. However, importers are required to report ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 HUNGARY their contracts to the Ministry of Trade for statistical purposes. Other imports and all exports are subject to li- censing. Licenses are issued by the Licensing De- partment of the Ministry of Trade. No further li- cense from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. At the beginning of 1988, a "Normative Import Licensing System" (SALDO) was introduced. Under this system, the value of imports of certain enterprises was agreed with the Ministry of Trade at the beginning of the year, and enterprises were then free to import goods (except finished consumer items) up to the agreed value without further scrutiny. The value of these auto- matic licenses would increase (decrease) in a preset proportion if the firm's exports exceeded (fell short of) a predetermined level. The scope of this system was largely reduced by the partial liberalization of imports in 1989, and the system is to be eliminated in 1990. Enterprises that do not participate in the SALDO system must obtain specific licenses for those imports that remain subject to licensing. These licenses may be global or individual and, unless otherwise specified, are valid until the end of the calendar year for which they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place with any country for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used primarily for bulk imports of items, such as fertilizer and steel prod- ucts, which are spread over the course of the year. Individual licenses permit transactions to take place only as specified. A fee equivalent to 1 percent of the forint value of licensed imports settled in convert- ible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import duties, a 2 percent customs fee upon customs clear- ance, and a 3 percent statistical fee. An advance import deposit scheme for capital goods introduced in 1968 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. Separately, a forint cover requirement applies to both imports and in- vestment financing and is to be deposited at the respective commercial bank in advance. Every five days commercial banks place the forint deposit with the National Bank, which effects payments for im- ports. In the case of imports, the importer is re- quired to deposit the forint equivalent of the value of the letter of credit in a blocked non-interest- bearing account at the respective commercial bank when opening a letter of credit. When importing on behalf of other end-users, foreign trade organiza- tions can obtain payment from the end-user up to a maximum of 15 days before the due date for pay- ment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or, for imports against documents of acceptance, to the date of payment. In the case of investment financing, a letter from the respective commercial bank confirming that financing for the project has been secured in full is required before spending can be initiated. The related financing is frozen in a non-interest-bearing account at the time the letter is issued by the respective commercial bank. In the case of imported capital goods, the letter must be submitted to the licensing authority before the import license is issued. In 1989, the import regime was liberalized whereby a wide range of goods, predominately raw materials and spare parts, were permitted to be imported without a license. (Liberalized imports were equivalent to about 40 percent of total imports in 1988.)8 Imports of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annually in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 1989 was set at US$200 million.9 Licenses against the quota are granted on an order-of-arrival basis, and unused allocations are not automatically added to the quota for the next year. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post verification of compliance with the terms of the license is made by the foreign exchange authority twice a year. Cer- tain imports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Hungary has been a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) since 1973. As part of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN), the arithmetic average tariff level applied on a most-favored-nation basis was reduced from 24.9 percent in 1979 to 16.1 percent as of January 1, 1987. Imports from the least developed countries are duty free. On April 8, 1989, new rules governing noncom- mercial imports by returning Hungarian travelers came into effect. General import duties on these imports were increased to 45 percent from 30 per- cent. The duty-free allowance per person was re- duced from Ft 10,000 to Ft 5,000; it may no longer be pooled among travelers and is no longer deductible from the value of imports above the allowance that is dutiable. The basis for the valuation of imports was changed from the corresponding domestic price to the actual invoice price expressed in forint terms, with the exception of imports of cars. Import duties 8The range of goods that may be imported without a license was expanded on January I, 1990, to about 65 percent of total imports in 1988. 9The quota for 1990 has been set at US$270 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 211 on cars are between 10 percent and 70 percent, depending on the type, the cylinder capacity, and the production year of the car. Effective December 1, 1989, a 25 percent value-added tax is levied on im- ports of cars. Returning residents may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings while stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. An export subsidy may be applied to exports of agricultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies. The tax refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Most trade with member countries of the CMEA, Albania, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic is conducted under bilateral agreements. Trade within this framework takes place at prices fixed in the annual bilateral agree- ments on the basis of quotas representing delivery obligations, with determined conditions of delivery. Subsidies may be paid to compensate exporting en- terprises for losses incurred if such exports are re- quired for fulfillment of the obligations of the agree- ment. Transferable rubles earned from exports to CMEA partner countries within the quota may be converted into forint at the official rate. Receipts from exports in excess of the quota will not be con- verted into forint by the National Bank but may instead be sold freely to importers wishing to im- port above the allocated quota. All foreign assets and currencies must be de- clared and all foreign exchange assets must be sold to the National Bank of Hungary, unless otherwise exempted. Declaration must be made within eight days, but the length of time allowed for repatriation depends on the nature of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is generally exempt from the obligation to surrender its foreign exchange assets to the Na- tional Bank. The National Savings Bank and the General Banking and Trust Company are exempt from the surrender requirement in certain other cases; foreign exchange deposits of commercial banks are also exempt. Specific exemptions for indi- viduals are granted for gifts, as well as for wages and salaries earned while working abroad with offi- cial permission, or for scholarships received from nonresidents (see section on Resident and Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Receipts of foreign currency not exceeding Ft 4,000 a person (in bank notes only) are also generally exempt from the surrender requirement. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or individual authorization by either the Ministry of Finance or another competent authority. Foreign exchange for related payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises en- gaging in foreign economic activities for the pur- pose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to ex- penses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the condi- tions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance, the Na- tional Bank, or the Ministry of Trade. Travel regulations were changed on January 1, 1988. All Hungarian citizens were permitted to ob- tain passports valid for five years for travel to all countries without indicating the purpose of travel or being subject to a limitation on the frequency of travel. The travel allowances were denominated in forint; at the end of October 1989, an allowance of Ft 22,500 was granted for any three-year period, which could be obtained in part during the three- year period. An additional allowance of Ft 15,400 was made available for the purchase of railway or airline tickets, including the sum of Ft 7,100 for the purchase of gasoline abroad. For those travelers who exhausted their allowance in 1986-87, an en- titlement of Ft 3,000 a year was made available for 1988-89. The availability of foreign exchange for private travel was tightened significantly in Novem- ber 1989. On November 3, 1989, the provision of foreign exchange for private travel was suspended. On November 20,1989, a new regulation governing foreign exchange allowances for private travel was introduced. Under the revised regulation, foreign exchange allowances for travel by passport holders over 14 years of age may be obtained in convertible currencies subject to an individual allowance of US$50 a year from January 1, 1990. Drawings can only be made annually or to the extent of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of US$50 or US$100 is granted if the allowances are not drawn until the third or the fourth year, respec- tively. Those travelers who used more than one half ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 HUNGARY of the total allowance available for the three-year period 198&-90 under the previous system, cannot receive further allowances until 1991-92. The reg- ulations governing purchases of railway tickets re- mained unchanged, but the portion available in for- eign exchange for the purchase of gasoline abroad was abolished except for the handicapped. Tickets for the international bus lines operated by Hungary, flights by Malev or other airlines par- ticipating in a pooling arrangement with Malev, hydro-plane to and from Vienna, and railway travel for the segment within Hungary are not covered by the special travel allowance. Any other transporta- tion expenses must be covered by the traveler's own foreign exchange resources. For official and business travel, separate rules are established by the Ministry of Finance for living expenses and accommodation. Limits for living ex- penses are applied strictly, while accommodation allowances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual reasonable costs. Compliance with these limits is administered by the enterprises or institutions themselves within their allocated global foreign ex- change quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance. Amounts of convertible currencies a traveler does not spend while abroad must be reconverted into forint after returning to Hungary, with the excep- tion of Ft 4,000 a person, which is generally exempt from the surrender requirement. The return of un- used railway tickets is counted toward the travel allowances to be available for subsequent trips. The global value of foreign currency that may be converted into forint by travelers from CMEA part- ner countries is determined in accordance with an- nual bilateral agreements. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary. For travel between Hungary and Poland, travelers are required to have in their possession specific minimum amounts of the currency of their country of destination. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic as- sets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, pro- vided that they have filled out a "Certified Declara- tion on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. In addition, nonresidents may not take out of the country arti- cles exceeding the value of Ft 3,00010 (up to Ft 1,000 an article). Within the same overall limits, nonresi- dents from countries with which an agreement is in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies 10In border traffic, the value may not exceed Ft 200 a month unless otherwise authorized under international agreement. (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the country gifts up to Ft 300 a person, as well as purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certifica- tion of the nonresident's foreign exchange au- thority. However, nonresidents may take out freely articles bought in shops designated for sales in con- vertible currencies. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not ex- ceeding Ft 400 a person, in denominations not ex- ceeding Ft 100; the corresponding limit for nonresi- dents is Ft 100 a person. Limits of Ft 50 a person apply to both residents and nonresidents, not to exceed Ft 200 a month, in the case of border-zone traffic. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: in addition to the Ft 400 that may be taken out of the country in forint and converted at the travel destination, residents travel- ing to CMEA countries are entitled to unlimited purchases of traveler's checks and bank notes of the country of destination. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the National Bank for the relevant currency. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of fo- rint acquired by CMEA tourists into their own na- tional currency is allowed. Tourists from the con- vertible currency area can reconvert up to the equivalent of US$100, provided that the reconver- sion is for not more than half of the amount orig- inally converted into forint. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from con- vertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ven- tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enter- prises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Capital All foreign borrowing, excluding foreign borrow- ing on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, requires the approval of the National Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional circum- stances—for example, when credits on favorable terms are guaranteed by the government of the exporter or when bankers' acceptances are provided ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 213 on favorable terms. The requirements of the econ- omy for foreign credit are met through direct for- eign borrowing by the National Bank; the aim is to prevent Hungarian enterprises from circumventing the regulations of domestic credit policy by means of foreign resources. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the National Bank. No license is re- quired from the foreign exchange authority for com- mercial credits in compliance with the directives. These credits are refinanced by the National Bank from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established, subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. Effective January 1,1989, the licensing requirement has been abolished for joint ventures in which for- eign participation does not exceed 50 percent; for- eign participation up to 100 percent may also be allowed, subject to approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are not subject to several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as part of foreign investment. The profit tax rate for joint ventures in the production sphere and in the hotel building and hotel trade is 16 percent in the first five years of operation and 24 percent thereaf- ter, provided that the equity capital exceeds Ft 25 million and the foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a profit tax cut. Joint ven- tures in preferred lines of production are exempted from the profit tax for five years and pay 16 percent thereafter. There are no customs duties on real as- sets brought into joint ventures. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the National Bank covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungarian banking institutions covering the fulfill- ment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enter- prise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Trade. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Gifts (movable property) from non- residents in excess of Ft 25,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hungary, except in the form of inheritance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain es- tablished categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the ap- proval of the National Bank of Hungary. Effective April 1, 1989, emigrants have been al- lowed to take out of the country assets up to Ft 250,000, silver objects weighing no more than 1 kilogram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresi- dent blocked forint account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the National Bank and in concurrence with the competent authority in the case of indus- trial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted prior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The external value of the forint against the transferable ruble was devalued to TR1 = Ft 29. March 21. The external value of the forint was devalued by 5 percent against the basket of curren- cies to which it is pegged. April 14. The external value of the forint was de- valued by 6 percent against the basket of convertible currencies to which it is pegged. November 1. The external value of the forint against the transferable ruble was revalued to TR 1 = Ft 27.5. December 5. The external value of the forint was devalued by 10 percent against the basket of con- vertible currencies to which it is pegged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 HUNGARY Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 18. Up to 100 percent of income or as- sets in convertible currencies relating to the follow- ing were allowed to be maintained in convertible currency accounts: (1) foreign exchange earned from creative, inventive, or artistic activities; (2) honoraria; (3) prizes, awards, and winnings on foreign exchange lotteries; (4) gifts from abroad; and (5) specified fees. Up to 10 percent of the export proceeds of small scale traders and private enter- prises may also be maintained on this account. Imports and Exports January 1. The import liberalization program was initiated, resulting in the exemption of 40 percent of 1988 nonruble imports from licensing and quota regulations. The coverage of the import exemption list (for which specific authorization is required in addition to trading rights) was reduced by half to an esti- mated 20 percent of nonruble imports. The coverage of the export exemption list (for which specific au- thorization is required in addition to trading rights) was reduced by about one third to an estimated 36 percent of nonruble exports. March 1. Commercial banks were authorized to act as intermediaries for commercial-related foreign exchange transactions between the NBH and exporters/importers. Concurrently, a new regula- tion was issued clarifying the application of the fo- rint cover requirement for importers opening a let- ter of credit and specifying the list of imports exempt from the requirement. March 14. Soya flour and fishmeal were added to the list of imports exempted from the forint cover requirement under a letter of credit. April 8. General import duties on noncommercial imports of returning Hungarian travelers were in- creased to 45 percent from 30 percent. The duty-free allowance was reduced to Ft 5,000 from Ft 10,000 a person; it may no longer be pooled among travelers and would no longer be deductible from the value of imports above the allowance that is dutiable. The basis for valuation of imports was changed from the corresponding domestic price to the actual invoice price expressed in forint terms, with the exception of imports of cars. October 1. The National Bank of Hungary stopped encashing into forint transferable rubles earned on exports outside the scope of negotiated bilateral quotas. Rubles earned on such exports were, how- ever, allowed to be traded freely with other enter- prises willing and able to acquire imports outside the quota system. December 1. A 25 percent value-added tax was levied on imports of cars. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles November 1. The limit on rubles that travelers from the U.S.S.R. were allowed to convert into forint was reduced to 10 rubles from 30 rubles. November 3. The provision of foreign exchange allowance for private travel was suspended. November 20. A new regulation governing ex- change allowances for private travel was intro- duced, whereby the basic travel allowance for adults was established at US$50 a year. Drawings were allowed annually only to the extent of unused pre- vious annual allowances. A bonus of US$50 or US$100 will be granted if the allowances are not drawn until the third or the fourth year, respec- tively. Those who have used up more than one half of the total available under the previous system would not be eligible for new allowances until 1991- 92, respectively. The amount of additional al- lowance for the purchase of railway tickets for any three-year period remained unchanged (Ft 15,400), but the portion available in foreign exchange for the purchase of gasoline abroad was abolished except for the handicapped. December 13. The conversion of rubles into forint by travelers from the U.S.S.R. was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the exchange rate of which is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The Central Bank is authorized to fix the daily rate of the krona within a limit of 2.25 percent on either side of its central basket rate. There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland, and official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted daily. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates were ISK 61.09 and ISK 61.25, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce and Banking, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and foreign exchange regulations, while exports come under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents from commercial transac- tions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in con- vertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar, and with several other countries in Eastern and 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts with the authorized banks: Foreign Ac- counts and Special Accounts. The opening of non- resident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency to banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, pay- ments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.2 Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an Icelandic bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on the restricted list may be im- ported freely without an import license from any country; most imports are liberalized. The main commodities on the restricted list are petroleum products, certain agricultural goods, and specified brooms and brushes. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic bev- erages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state-trading arrangements. Some fresh veg- etables, potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. 2Residents who hold foreign currency that they are not re- quired to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts with Icelandic banks. Exporters can similarly deposit, up to six months, foreign exchange proceeds in identical accounts to meet foreign exchange outlays in their business. Such accounts, de- nominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 ICELAND For imports from all sources, where a license is required, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when the license is is- sued. Petroleum products are subject to licensing, but no fee is assessed. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, but import documenta- tion must be presented to domestic banks to obtain foreign exchange. For imports that require an indi- vidual license, foreign exchange is granted in accor- dance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for up to one year for individual shipments from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port. The maturity must conform to general practices in international trade for respective goods. If, however, a domestic financial institution acts as guarantor, the credit terms must not exceed a period of six months. Im- port documentation on credit terms must be pre- sented to one of the banks at the time of customs clearance. Suppliers' credits in excess of one year are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Com- merce and Banking. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public ser- vice vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether of imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax dependent on alcohol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on ex- ternal loans, expenses of the foreign service, pay- ments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on for- eign exchange transactions. The banks effect payments freely on most trans- actions on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 percent for all pay- ments for invisibles. The basic foreign exchange allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$2,000 a person for each trip abroad (US$1,000 for each child). Applications for foreign exchange for chartering of ships and aircraft, for major repairs of ships and aircraft, for transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and for insur- ance operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out ISK 14,000 in Icelandic bank notes in any denominations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products re- quire licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. The shipping documents must be lodged with a domestic bank. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered without undue delay. Exporters can deposit with a domestic bank, up to six months, foreign exchange proceeds to meet for- eign exchange outlays in their business. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelan- dic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operat- ing purposes and for purchases of necessities. Ice- landic insurance companies that reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes up to ISK 14,000 in all denominations. Capital All investments by nonresidents are subject to individual approval. Rules concerning Icelandic joint stock companies, which are laid down in Law No. 32/1978, require the majority of the founders of a joint stock company to have been domiciled in Iceland for the preceding two years. No conditions are imposed with regard to Icelandic nationality of the founders; but the right of foreigners to direct or own shares in joint stock companies is governed by legal provisions that are different for the various types of economic activities. The director or direc- tors of the branch office must be domiciled in Ice- land; and, as a rule, they must be Icelandic citizens. As far as the marine sector is concerned, the regula- tions severely restrict foreign participation, and fishing within the 200 miles fishing limit is permit- ted only by Icelandic citizens using vessels regis- tered in Iceland. Fish processing can be carried out only by Icelandic citizens or wholly owned Icelandic companies. A manufacturing company with an un- limited liability must be owned by Icelandic citizens domiciled in Iceland to get an operating license. In a limited liability company, the majority of the shares ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 217 must be owned by residents, and the members of the board of directors as well as managing directors must be Icelandic citizens domiciled in Iceland. An aluminum plant, which is wholly owned by non- residents, is an exception in accordance with a spe- cial legislation. Non-resident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered; nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for such funds, in which case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign ex- change accruing to them on account of capital trans- actions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. Suppliers' credits with a maturity of up to 12 months may be contracted without restriction as long as the transaction is not guaranteed and the funds are not relent by a domestic financial institu- tion; otherwise the maximum maturity period is restricted to 6 months. The regulations on foreign borrowing, purchase leasing, and financial leasing of capital goods re- quire that 20 percent of the value of imports of capital goods be financed domestically; this ratio is 30 percent if the borrowing is guaranteed or the funds relent by a financial institution. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require individual approval. Direct investments abroad by domestic businesses are permitted for certain pur- poses. Direct investments abroad for the purpose of promoting the marketing of Icelandic products are normally permitted. Portfolio investments abroad by residents are subject to license. Outward trans- fers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are subject to license and are allowed up to an an- nual ceiling. Icelandic emigrants may transfer up to ISK 400,000 a person at the time of departure. Half of their holdings, including proceeds of real estate, may be transferred upon presentation of evidence of permanent residency in a foreign country, and the remaining balances, one year thereafter. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires au- thorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresi- dents must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central Bank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The im- port and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require li- censes issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the Icelandic krona was devalued on several occasions, from ISK 46.16 (buying) and ISK 46.28 (selling) per US$1 on January 1 to ISK 61.09 (buying) and ISK 61.25 (selling) per US$1 on December 29. January 3. The Central Bank was authorized to vary the exchange rate by a margin of 1.25 percent on either side of the central basket rate. February 7. The margin within which the ex- change rate was allowed to fluctuate was widened by the Central Bank to 2.25 percent on either side of the central basket rate. Imports and Import Payments January 1. All goods were permitted to be im- ported freely on a deferred payment basis up to three months if not guaranteed by a domestic com- mercial bank, savings bank, insurance company, or a public investment fund. Capital January 1. The ratio (in terms of f .p .b. value) of investment goods allowed to be financed abroad by Icelandic businesses was reduced to 50-60 percent. June 1. The taxes on foreign borrowing were eliminated. November 1. The ratio (in terms of f.o.b. value) of investment goods allowed to be financed abroad by Icelandic businesses was increased to 70-80 per- cent. Importers were also permitted to obtain sup- pliers' credits for individual shipments of goods with a maturity of up to one year as long as the transaction was not guaranteed and funds were not relent by a domestic financial institution; otherwise, the maximum maturity period is restricted to six months. December 29. The taxes on foreign borrowing were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Ex- change rates are computed with respect to the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the interven- tion currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank of India; on December 29, 1989, they were Rs 27.2622 buying and Rs 27.4183 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Re- serve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and for- ward, and to sell spot ACU currencies, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank permits authorized dealers and authorized money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U.S. dollar and pound sterling notes on the basis of a formula furnished by the Bank. The Re- serve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" ex- change rates for the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar at which autho- rized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank receipts/remittances on ac- count of deposits in the Foreign Currency (Nonresi- dent) Account Scheme. The Reserve Bank bears the exchange risk involved in the operation of the scheme. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain bal- ances and positions in "permitted currencies." Per- mitted currencies are divided into two groups, Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Although it is not one of the countries specified in this context, Nepal is also a member of the ACU. Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies,2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currencies that are convertible into any of the permitted cur- rencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permit- ted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilat- eral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward pur- chase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad is prohibited. On December 29, 1989, market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were US$5.9075 buying (clean) and US$5.8800 selling, per Rs 100; and the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for U.S. dollars was US$5.8975 and its forward buying rates were US$5.5040, US$5.8535, and US$5.6675, per Rs 100 (for 1, 3, and 12 months' delivery, respectively). The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to au- thorized dealers by purchases of pounds sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. Thus, the forward contracts are on a monthly option basis, that is, with options to deliver the amount on any day from the first to the last day of the month in which the contract is due for deliv- ery. In addition, the Export Credit Guarantee Cor- poration of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and U.A.E. dirhams. For payments spec- ified in other convertible currencies, cover is pro- vided at the discretion of ECGC. The Reserve Bank 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 219 also purchases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All pro- posals for foreign direct investment in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trading activities in India of companies incorpo- rated abroad, or with more than 40 percent nonresi- dent interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of busi- ness for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 3) and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be set- tled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clear- ing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any per- mitted currency.4 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and the People's Republic of China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. All non-trade-related transactions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China continue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifi- cally authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in the People's Republic of China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek direction before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they also may effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remittances; remittances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. In addition, all payments on account of current international trans- actions (other than travel, export, and import trans- actions) financed with loans from international fi- nancial institutions under bilateral lines of credit between India and other members of the ACU (see footnote 1), except Nepal, are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, com- panies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresi- dent accounts. The treatment of these accounts dis- tinguishes between banks and others. The accounts of banks are classified into two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes —that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes; with authorized transfers from the non- resident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or coun- tries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be deb- ited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Non- resident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any per- mitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for 5However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 INDIA payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts pre- viously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remit- tances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee ac- counts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresi- dents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an ap- proved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses from a former employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 4,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 1,500. When the nonresident account holder is an In- dian national or a person of Indian origin, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India, are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresi- dent accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trusts in which at least 60 percent ownership or beneficial interest is held directly or indirectly by nonresident Indians, and provided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from remittances abroad or from funds in India otherwise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and, in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were acquired with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (1) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in In- dia and booking of international passages; and (2) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin resident outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 For- eign Exchange Regulation Act, all state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such li- censes have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee ac- counts. Such accounts may also be opened for eligi- ble persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign cur- rency notes and coins tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with in- come on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India and transfers to other Nonresident (Exter- nal) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities; but transfers of funds from an individual account to a similar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in im- movable property can be made with the specific/ general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from the wealth tax. Gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in the accounts are also exempt from the gift tax. These tax ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 221 exemptions are available only for those accounts maintained by nonresident individuals and not by overseas corporate bodies. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts de- nominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian na- tionality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which is free of in- come tax, wealth, and gift tax in respect of accounts maintained by individuals. Balances may be repatri- ated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, re- strict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, which specifies items subject to controls. All im- ports require import licenses or a customs clearance permit unless otherwise exempted.6 Imports of gold, silver, currency notes, bank notes, and coins are controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Imports from Namibia (South West Africa), Fiji, and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of actual user licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). There is a further classification of li- censes as follows: Supplementary Licenses, Import Replenishment (REP) Licenses, Capital Goods Li- censes, Advance Licenses, Special Imprest Li- censes, Import/Export Passbook Licenses, Special Imprest Import/Export Passbook Licenses, Imprest Licenses, and Additional Licenses. Licenses issued for capital goods are valid for 2 years, and all other licenses mentioned above are valid for 18 months. The Import Policy for fiscal years 1988/91, which came into effect on April 1, 1988, with its subse- quent amendments, contains the policy governing imports. The import policy divides products into three basic categories: consumption goods; raw ma- terials, components, consumables, tools, and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized; consumer durable items are also not allowed to be imported except 6The exempted category includes government imports under Open General License, relief supplies, and passenger baggage. items that can be imported under the personal bag- gage scheme by Indians returning from abroad.7 Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into three catego- ries: (1) limited permissible, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. There is also a list of instruments that are permissible for imports against licenses. All items not included on these lists are freely available for imports under Open General License (OGL). Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement may, during the first 12 months after their return, import all raw materials except restricted (nonpermissible) items and can- alized items under OGL, subject to a value limit for the purpose of setting up small industries. Supple- mentary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of limited permissible items. All licenses to industry are generally issued against free foreign exchange, except for imports from the rupee payment area and from countries that are financed with available credits. Special procedures apply to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are restricted, while some capital goods listed may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential ("essentiality certificate"), unavailable from domes- tic sources ("indigenous angle clearance"), and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 2.5 million, that the importer has advertised his requirements for a period of 45 days. For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, whether or not the goods are manufactured in India. How- ever, importers are required to study domestic avail- ability of suitable equipment before calling for tenders. The selection of suppliers on the basis of global tender is subject to scrutiny by a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Develop- ment. For imports of capital equipment for power generation, transmission, and distribution, appli- cants must obtain prior clearance from this commit- tee before calling for global tenders. Subject to spec- ified conditions and relative value restriction, exporters of manufactured goods are entitled to im- port capital goods against their own and acquired Import Replenishment Scheme (REP) licenses with- out an essentiality certificate and without indige- nous angle clearance, provided that the products 7Items that can be imported under the personal baggage scheme include air-conditioner units, refrigerators, deep freez- ers, cooking ranges, washing machines, television sets, tape recorders, record players, movie cameras and projectors, video cassettes, textile fabrics, cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 INDIA are not on the restricted list. Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement may im- port capital goods other than restricted items and certain specified items for the purpose of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Under the REP scheme, REP licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manufacturer-exporters, ex- port houses, and trading houses, and are freely transferable. Exporters are able to obtain Advance Licenses (under the Duty Exemption Scheme) or DIG Diamond Imprest Licenses or Import/Export Passbook Licenses to import inputs required for export products. The imports under the Duty Ex- emption Scheme and the Import Export Passbook Scheme are duty free. The value of such licenses is debited against the REP entitlement. Registered ex- porters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain propor- tion of the value of exports; these licenses are valid for importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items necessary for the production of the particular export product. The REP license entitle- ment is increased by 10 percent for exports that are shipped in Indian vessels. Subject to a value limit on individual items, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses exporting products of their own manufacture are also allowed to import limited permissible items and canalized items that are related to select products exported or manufac- tured by them. REP licenses carry built-in flexibility that is calculated on the basis of net value added (i.e., the f.o.b. value of exports minus the import replenishment entitlement in value terms) and is subject to the condition that (1) the flexibility is restricted to 10 percent of the net value added or up to the value of the license, whichever is lower; and (2) the flexibility permitted is within the overall value of the license. However, the percentage flex- ibility for passenger cars, trucks, station wagons, buses, tempos, jeeps, motorcycles, scooters, mopeds, three-wheelers, and other motor vehicles including tractors is 20 percent. Within the flex- ibility, REP licenses can be utilized for imports of items appearing on the Limited Permissible List and Canalized List, provided that imports of a single item do not exceed 10 percent of the overall flex- ibility, subject to a maximum of Rs 1 million. If the value of the 10 percent flexibility is less than Rs 100,000, imports of a single item may be allowed up to a value of Rs 100,000 within the value of the license, provided that this value is otherwise cov- ered by the flexibility. Where the total flexibility itself is less than Rs 100,000, full flexibility may be allowed for imports of a single item. Within the value of the flexibility allowed, REP licenses may also be utilized for imports of capital goods without the recommendation of the sponsoring authority and without indigenous clearance, provided that the value of imports does not exceed Rs 1 million and the items consist of capital goods on the List of Restricted Capital Goods. Imports of certain instru- ments and specified office machines are not al- lowed. An actual user (industrial) may accumulate the flexibility percentage for imports of one inte- grated plant/machinery, including accessories, up to a maximum value of Rs 10 million, provided that importation of the items is not restricted. Exporters who achieve an average performance of Rs 2 million and Rs 10 million during the preceding three years are recognized as Export Houses and Trading Houses, respectively. Export performance is calculated on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings. They are issued Additional Licenses cal- culated as 10 percent of net foreign exchange earn- ings, or 12 percent if an Export or Trading House achieves a minimum growth of 10 percent in terms of net foreign exchange in the previous year, over and above the year preceding that. The licenses are valid for imports of items on the Open General License List. They are also valid, up to 10 percent of the value of the license (15 percent in the case of Trading Houses), for imports of items on the List of Limited Permissible Items and canalized items, as well as imports of non-OGL capital goods up to the value of Rs 10 million, in the same manner as are imports against flexibility under REP licenses. Within this flexibility of 10 percent (15 percent in the case of Trading Houses), these licenses are also valid for imports of up to four samples, subject to a maximum value of Rs 200,000, including Rs 25,000 for samples of consumer goods. Additional Li- censes are also valid for imports of almonds up to 5 percent of the value of the license. In addition, the flexibility available on REP li- censes and the full value of the Additional Licenses may be used for imports of the following items: copper, including copper rods (wrought or un- wrought); zinc (or spelter); lead; all grades of pig iron (including alloy steel pig iron) but excluding pig iron chips; waste and scrap for remelting (melting scrap) of all grades of non-alloy steel in any form or condition, including remelting scrap ingots); and old ships and vessels (except Indian flag vessels) for breaking. Nonindustrial actual users, such as re- search and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and professional equipment, raw materials, compo- nents, spare parts, or other items (but not office machines and consumer goods) under OGL. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 223 When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Contracting of sup- pliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long- term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, except for those with respect to import values of up to US$1,000. However, in special cases—e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for ad- vance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain commodities, includ- ing food grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cot- ton, raw jute, cement, most fertilizers, most nonfer- rous metals, and certain categories of steel, is re- served for the Government or state-trading enterprises (i.e., canalized), the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not re- served for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center (IRMAC) facility. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 40 percent ad valorem, which was raised to 45 percent ad va- lorem with effect from September 20,1987. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles re- quire approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions and transfers of recur- ring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resi- dent in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superan- nuation or pension funds; Indian residents are pro- hibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank ap- proval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remit- tance of profits, dividends, and interest to benefici- aries permanently resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their fam- ilies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Re- serve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, resident Indian citizens are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities to any country (other than Bhutan, Nepal, and the countries cov- ered by the Neighborhood Trade Scheme (NTS)), once every three calendar years. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the FTS is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined with visits for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business mat- ters, Hajj pilgrimage, and travel under the NTS. Under the FTS, residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent and a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. In the case of minor children up to the age of 12, the foreign exchange entitlement is US$250. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the FTS for any eligible person; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Seychelles, Sin- gapore, and Sri Lanka is governed by the NTS, under which resident Indian citizens visiting neigh- boring countries are eligible for an exchange al- lowance of US$250 a person once every three calen- dar years; this arrangement cannot be combined with the existing FTS. As in the case of FTS, the foreign exchange entitlement for minor children up to the age of 12 is one half of the normal quota for adults. Persons obtaining foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are required to pay, unless they are specifi- cally exempted, a Foreign Exchange Conservation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 INDIA (Travel) Tax at the rate of 15 percent at the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange released to them. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of for- eign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by In- dian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their company in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank ap- proval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is in general pro- hibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class passengers to Mal- aysia, Myanmar, Singapore, ports in certain Middle Eastern countries, and East Africa, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka may each take with them Rs 20 in Indian notes and coins. Ex- change bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to US$20 or its equivalent to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling-in and for purchase of initial equipment by students going to foreign uni- versities with full bursaries. A Foreign Travel tax at a rate of Rs 300 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an interna- tional journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, My- anmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay the tax at a rate of Rs 150 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a li- cense. In respect of controlled commodities,8 no item can normally be exported unless it is covered by a valid license issued by the concerned licensing authority. Exports to Namibia (South West Africa), Fiji, and South Africa are prohibited. Border trade (i.e., frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China is not allowed. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export pro- ceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not permanently resident in India, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Exporters are required to obtain permis- sion from the Reserve Bank of India through autho- rized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also administers a scheme under which export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of ex- port value in installments over a period exceeding six months. Some exports are prohibited,9 and others, namely coffee, black pepper, mica scrap and waste, and hides, skins, and leather, are subject to export duties. Some others, including footwear, roasted and salted peanuts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices.10 A substantial number of exports, mainly new man- ufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, ma- rine products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and jute and coir 8The export of certain commodities, including sugar, raw jute, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state-trading enterprises (exports of raw jute are canalized through Jute Cor- poration of India, Calcutta). 9Exports that are prohibited include rock crystal, quartz, some varieties of plants and derivatives, all varieties of forestry foun- dation and breeder seeds, tallow fat and/or oil of any animal origin, rough (uncut and unset) precious stones, sugar cane, frogs' legs, jaggery, specified animal skins, and human skeletons (exports of jaggery are allowed within a quantitative ceiling). 10Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are permitted on a decontrolled basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 225 products) receive cash compensatory support, im- port duty drawbacks, refund of central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists can, with the approval of customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered im- mediately on receipt. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, deck-class passengers from Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, ports in certain Middle Eastern countries, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka may import into India Rs 20 a person against pre- sentation of evidence that they previously had ex- ported this amount from India. Travelers from My- anmar, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in Indian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any autho- rized dealer in foreign exchange or to any autho- rized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Re- serve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; permission is granted for any loan that has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Cen- tral Government on the basis of merits. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiat- ing, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity, holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial ac- tivity in India by nonresidents, noncitizens, non- bank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 percent nonresi- dent interest.11 Foreign investment is governed by the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) of 1973. The Reserve Bank will allow companies hav- ing nonresident interest in excess of 40 percent and up to 74 percent to continue their activities depend- ing on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export-oriented production, or 11 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited com- pany, in any partnership or proprietorship concern, and in in- dustrial, manufacturing, or trade activity (except where the pro- posed investment is in real estate), provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal bank- ing channels or are drawn from their Nonresident Accounts, provided that an undertaking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested, and provided that overall limits on hold- ings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies and partnership firms which are owned by the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provi- sions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies defined above can use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their Nonresident (External) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts to (1) make portfolio investment, with repatriation benefit, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their hold- ings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a re- patriable or nonrepayable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of debentures issued by the company concerned; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certifi- cates with full repatriation benefit; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company (other than a FERA company) setting up industrial manufacturing projects, hospi- tals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 74 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial under- takings in specified priority industries, in hospitals and three-, four-, or five-star hotels, with free repatriation of such invest- ment and income therefrom af ter deduction of applicable domes- tic taxes. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as de- fined above, can also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with full repatriation benefits, ( provided (1) the deposits are made for a period of three years; (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies; and (3) the funds are made available by the deposi- tors by remittance from abroad or by payment from their Non- resident (External) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts. Special tax concessions are applicable to investments by nonresi- dent Indians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA in manufacturing activities that require sophisti- cated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 percent nonresident equity as long as their com- bined core sector production involving application of sophisticated technology and export production accounts for not less than 60 percent of their annual turnover, with a minimum of 10 percent of exports out of their total annual turnover within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated technol- ogy, and export production account for not less than 75 percent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain 74 percent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 percent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 percent nonresident eq- uity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-factory cost of annual produc- tion are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 per- cent. Companies that export 100 percent of produc- tion and new issues of shares/convertible debentures issued by hotels in the three-, four-, and five-star category may be wholly owned by nonresi- dents. Companies engaged predominantly in trad- ing activities, or not meeting the other criteria listed above, have been required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 percent within a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceeding 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional eq- uity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 percent but below 75 per- cent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equity is permitted in companies en- gaged predominantly in internal trading and com- mercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lend- ing to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Noncitizens, non-Indian com- panies, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 percent foreign participation must obtain Re- serve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or for- eign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. However, the sale and transfer of shares of Indian companies through stock ex- changes in India by nonresidents of Indian na- tionality or origin in favor of citizens of India or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies in which nonresident interest does not exceed 40 per- cent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance, where the proceeds of such shares sold by the trans- feror are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction that increases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the non- resident interest is 49 percent or less; and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permis- sion, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or dis- posing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is in- volved). Residents also require Reserve Bank ap- proval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities and transfer- ring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited, except with central government or Reserve Bank permission, from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also pro- hibited, except with central government permis- sion, from associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after Jan- uary 1,1950 by residents of other countries, includ- ing capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The pro- ceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in no more than four annual installments. The pro- ceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligi- ble for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no further remittances, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 including pensions, if any, are allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (i.e., July 1947, in the case of the erstwhile Sterling Area countries, and September 1939, in the case of other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign na- tionals who are temporarily resident in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remitta- ble assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, export, or other disposal of foreign se- curities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resident in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are per- mitted to transfer abroad their capital assets plus current income up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and the remainder in annual install- ments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritance, and bequests by persons who never were residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports resident abroad and wishing to return to India to secure suitable em- ployment, start a professional practice, or set up small-scale industrial units are, upon application, exempted for a period of five years from the date of their return to India from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, holders may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and compo- nents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (Ex- ternal) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings aris- ing from employment abroad with any Indian- owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to main- tain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a spec- ified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 50 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for cer- tain specified purposes for which exchange is nor- mally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of 15 years of the date of return of the head of the family. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there are restrictions on their manufacture and acquisition. There is no restriction on the ac- quisition, disposal, or possession of gold orna- ments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by in- dustrial users is regulated through permits and au- thorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold re- fining is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for pur- poses of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary au- thorities require special authorization from the Re- serve Bank and are not normally permitted; in cer- tain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA manufacture gold and silver jewelry in bond from imported gold and silver, for export purposes only. Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Re- plenishment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of specified fineness are en- titled to the replenishment by gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Government of India) against Release Orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they sat- isfy value added and other requirements of the scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Spe- cial permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-export, pro- vided that payment for the import will not be re- quired, that the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in for- eign exchange through an authorized dealer. Eligi- ble registered exporters are allowed to import gold findings, mountings, etc., and gold of 18 karats and less for export of plain and studded gold jewelry under the advance licensing scheme. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, sub- ject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, un- less the export is made by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. Net export of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The following changes were introduced in the categorization of goods for import-licensing purposes: (1) one hundred twenty-three capital goods items were placed under OGL. (The main industrial sectors to be affected were rubber and canvas footwear, silk, textiles, wool, bicycles and ball- and roller-bearings); (2) nine capital goods items were transferred from OGL to the category of capital goods subject to a license; (3) forty-six raw material items were transferred from OGL to the category of raw materials subject to a license; (4) paraxylene, phosphoric acid, and ammonia were removed from OGL, and their imports were can- alized through public sector agencies; (5) five items of raw materials and components of audio visual news/audio visual materials (including news clip- pings) were placed under OGL; and (6) carbon black feedstock was decanalized and placed under OGL. April 12. Special REP licenses equal to 10-33 per- cent of the value added (defined as f .o .b. value of exports less c.i.f. value of imports) were granted to exporters of goods manufactured and exported from customs bond. June 21. Authorized dealers were permitted to open transferable letters of credit for imports of goods into India that would provide for transfer of interest from the first beneficiary, on condition that the second beneficiary is also a resident of the same country. If the second beneficiary of the letter of credit is resident in another country, the transfer would be permissible only if both countries are de- fined as the External Group and are not members of the Asian Clearing Union. July 1. The customs tariffs on specified raw mate- rials and spare parts used in the production of spec- ified electronic items were raised to 40 percent from 35 percent and 60 percent from 50 percent, respectively. The concessional customs tariffs on specified ma- chinery, which ranged between 25 and 35 percent, were unified at 40 percent. The customs tariffs on wood pulp, waste paper, low ash coal, crude petroleum, coke, and certain chemicals were raised by 5 percentage points. The customs tariff on benzene was raised to 25 percent. The customs tariff on aluminum ingots was raised to 5 percent plus Rs 2,500 per ton. July 15. Seventy-four items of capital goods were placed under Open General License. July 21. The facility of duty-free imports of inputs used in export production under the Duty Exemp- tion Scheme was extended to manufacturers with large domestic turnover but without previous ex- port performance. September 26. The facility of the Passbook Scheme was extended to exporters in the garment sector. Regular manufacturer-exporters and merchant ex- porters with a minimum annual average export value (f .o .b .) of Rs 5 million in the preceding three licensing years became eligible to receive Import- Export Passbooks for duty-free imports of inputs used for export production. October 18. The eligibility criteria for the special rate of duty drawback were liberalized, whereby the minimum differential was reduced to 20 percent from the existing 25 percent. October 20. Excise duties were raised on imports of passenger vehicles, and a variety of electronic items, including televisions, music systems, and radios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. A new Cash Compensatory Support Scheme was introduced, providing for compensa- tions of unrebated indirect taxes (on both final and intermediate stages of export production), which are not refundable under the Duty Drawback Sys- tem. The main sectors benefiting were engineering goods, chemicals and allied products, leather goods, sporting goods, agricultural and processed food products, solvent extracted oil meals, textiles, flax products, handicrafts, and carpets. April 20. Exports of polyester stable fiber wire were permitted. April 25. Exports of nylon filament yarn were per- mitted up to a prescribed quantitative limit. April 27. Exports of silk products were permitted under OGL against letters of credit or document against payments basis. May 8. Exports of vegetable seeds, with the excep- tion of onion seeds, were permitted under OGL with a quality control certification. June 1. The duty drawback rates applicable to engineering products, certain chemical products, and various plastic products were revised, and 16 new items were added to the list eligible to re- ceive drawback. (The new products included floppy diskettes, vacuum flasks, pickles in glass bottles, injection moulding machines, various categories of copper-mound transformers, and motorcycles.) The existing facility, under which reduced draw- back rates are applied to certain exporters who receive benefits of advance license/passbook schemes, was extended to a number of products. June 20. Exports of clinker were permitted. July 20. Exports of rice, other than basmati, were permitted up to a prescribed limit. Capital July 20. Exports of high-performance viscose sta- ple fiber were permitted up to a prescribed limit. Authorized dealers were permitted to furnish counter-guarantees to their foreign branches/ correspondents to cover guarantees to be issued by the latter in favor of local beneficiaries on behalf of Indian exporters, in accordance with local regula- tions where these stipulate that such guarantees can be obtained only from resident banks. September 22. Nonresident Indians/persons of In- dian origin (NRIs) and overseas corporate bodies were permitted to invest in India, with full repatria- tion benefits, up to 100 percent of new issues of shares/convertible debentures issued by hotels in the three-, four-, and five-star category (previously, only direct investments were allowed in these cases up to 74 percent of the new issues). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. The exchange value of the rupiah is deter- mined by Bank Indonesia under a system of man- aged float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions were Rp 1,797 and Rp 1,803, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In September 1989, the foreign exchange system was modified substantially. Bank Indonesia's an- nounced exchange rate applies only to certain trans- actions undertaken at certain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. The purchase and sale of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia is conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate announced at 8:00 a.m. This rate is also used for swap and reswap transactions as well as for export draft discounts with Bank Indonesia, which are conducted between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Spot and forward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. After 3:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and after 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally con- ducted to compute banks' net open position. All transactions between Bank Indonesia and banks may be concluded through the dealing room using telecommunications. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed foreign ex- change dealers. Bank Indonesia stands ready to trade unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with authorized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Bank Indonesia provides to banks and other fi- nancial institutions unlimited forward cover in the form of foreign exchange/rupiah swaps at forward premia on foreign exchange to Bank Indonesia, matched by a forward purchase. The facility is pro- vided to cover bona fide offshore borrowing only. Since October 27, 1988, the minimum premium on official swaps, which was previously set by Bank Indonesia at the fixed rate of 9 percent, has been set on the basis of prevailing market conditions as indi- cated by the difference between the average domes- tic deposit rate and LIBOR. On December 29, 1989, the annual premium on official swaps was 7 percent for a 1-month swap; 713/i6 percent for a 1- to 3-month swap; 8% percent for a 3- to 6-month swap; 9 Vs per- cent for a 6- to 12-month swap; and 9Vs percent for a swap exceeding 12 months. Premia on operations with longer maturities are quoted only for the first 12 months. The Government does not make any commitment on the size of the premium beyond a 12-month period. Since the end of April 1989, foreign exchange banks must limit their net open position on a daily basis to less than 25 percent of their own capital. The net open position is defined as the net balance between foreign exchange assets and liabilities after the administrative position is taken into account. A bank that maintains a net open position exceeding the limit will be subject to a sanction. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7, 1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange con- trol is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Min- istry of Finance. 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transactions—that is, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Sin- gapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia maintains no op- erative bilateral payments agreements. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 231 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. For exchange control pur- poses, no distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, if the account holder wishes to withdraw funds, a letter must be sent to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as im- porters, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified products. Im- ports of secondhand goods may only be in the form of machinery or factory machinery used for produc- ing export products. Certain categories of agri- cultural imports, including different categories of food, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bev- erages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restric- tions are not placed on these products. Since November 1988, import controls on 318 products (i.e., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agriculture products) have been changed, and general importers have been allowed to import 301 of these products. However, the remaining 17 products must still be imported by designated importers, namely, approved importers and producer importers (producers allowed to im- port their inputs for production). Furthermore, on September 22, 1989, the monopoly right of the Board of Logistics (BULOG) to import maize was revoked. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to ap- proved importers, most of which are state enter- prises. Pertamina has a monopoly on the importa- tion of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and PT Dahana on the importation of ammunition, dyna- mite, and explosive gelatin. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be trans- ferred to general importers. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by private international agencies; the inspection cost is borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspec- tion, these agencies are required to issue a survey report (LKP) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value- added taxes; in the case of imports without a letter of credit, the LKP must be sent to an Indonesian bank designated by the importer, which in turn must send the bill of lading and the LKP to a foreign exchange bank. In the case of imports under letters of credit, the LKP is sent to the correspondent banks, and after payments of duties (which are determined on the declared c . i .f. value or the c.i.f. value as estimated by private international agen- cies) and taxes to the bank, the importer is given the bill of lading and the validated LKP, which must be presented to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LKP, except those that are valued at less than US$5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports of PMA (foreign capital investment) and PMDN (domestic capital investment) must have an LKP. Cement- asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low- voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of rawhides of cattle, certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, certain logs and timber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, antiques of cultural value, and raw rattan. Certain producer-exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Since 1987, exporters are no longer required to obtain an exporter's identification num- bers (APE and APET) to carry out export activities. Exporters must possess trade permits, or "Surat Izin Usaha" (SIU), which are issued by any govern- ment institution. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by a require- ment of prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domes- tic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern with domestic 2Items affected by such controls include logs, fertilizer, ce- ment, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, pa- per, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, raw rattan, and meat. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDONESIA price stability sometimes involves suspension of ex- ports of various items on this list. Prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is re- quired for exports of clove seeds, silver exported by FT Aneka Tambang, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. All other commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state-trading firms, except for exports of plywood, which need approval from the joint- marketing body for plywood exports. All exports of woods and wood products must be examined before shipment, and exports of sawn- timber and wood products may be conducted only by approved exporters. Effective October 10,1989, a minimum price of US$250 a cubic meter was estab- lished for exports of sawn and processed timber. At the same time, export taxes (PE) ranging from US$250 to US$2,400 a cubic meter were imposed on these products. Exports of certain other products are subject to a PE, as follows: natural sands, 10 per- cent; semiprocessed rattan for cultural purposes, 30 percent; and specific rattan, 20 percent. The PE and the export surcharge (PET) must be settled by exporters at the time of registration of exports (PEB) with foreign exchange banks. If the PE and PET are not yet settled at the time of PEB registration, ex- porters are required to submit promissory notes (SSB) for the value of PE and PET due. The payment of SSB may be accomplished in three ways. For exports without letters of credit, firms should settle SSB not later than 30 days from the date of PEB registration with the foreign exchange bank. For exports using consignment and usance letters of credit, exporters should settle SSB not later than 90 days from the date of PEB registration. For exports with sight letters of credit conditions, PE and PET must be settled not later than 30 days from the date of PEB registration with the foreign exchange bank. Exports of manioc (cassava) may be conducted only by approved exporters, as of August 29, 1989. Exports of gold and silver may only be conducted by exporters who possess certification from PT Aneka Tambang and recommendation authorization from the Ministry of Trade. As of November 1, 1989, exports of pepper have been exempted from certain previous export restrictions and may henceforth be realized by all companies possessing a license (SIU). Exports of textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be effected only by approved textile exporters, and exporters may transfer their allocated quotas to other ap- proved exporters through the Commodity Ex- change Board. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no sur- render requirement for export proceeds. In the cal- culation of export taxes on the principal com- modities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- mined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To make available to exporters inputs priced at international levels, a scheme has been set up that permits exporters and suppliers of inputs for ex- porters to bypass the import licensing system and import tariffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by non- tariff barriers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border- crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel, or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government has, at its option, required all foreign firms bidding for government-sponsored construction or procure- ment projects, of which the import component has a value of over Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must submit with their bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's value in selected Indonesian products (f .o.b.) during the life of the contract.4 Goods eligible to be used in meet- ing the counterpurchase requirement include agri- cultural products, manufactured and other prod- ucts, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total production) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 per- cent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Producer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post documentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a duty drawback facility. 4The following are exempted from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing that are derived from soft loans, and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes/duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, con- sultants7 services, purchase of technology (patent), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 233 subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either di- rectly or through a third party, possibly from an- other country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionally"; that is, the counter- purchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. The purchase of Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas under countertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations have to be completed at the end of such purchasing contract. If, at the com- pletion of the project/implementation of the pur- chase (government import), the export from Indo- nesia has not been completed, either partly or entirely, a penalty will be imposed on the winner of the tender or on the party to whom such obligation has been delegated, to the extent of 50 percent of the export value (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver com- memorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as subsequently amended by a number of presidential guidelines and decrees. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the president on the recommendation of the Capital Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely oper- ated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a max- imum of 30 years. In general, the obligation of a foreign partner in a joint-venture enterprise to divest its shares to 51 percent majority Indonesian ownership within 10 years after the commencement of production has been extended to 15 years. For enterprises with investment of more than US$10 million, those lo- cated in one of the ten designated developing provinces, or those exporting more than 65 percent of their production, this 15-year requirement may be extended by another 5 years. A foreign joint-venture enterprise located in a bonded zone or zones with the status of private entrepots and exporting 100 percent of its produc- tion is allowed to have national share participation of 5 percent or more, without the obligation to increase national share participation. A foreign joint-venture enterprise may be treated as a domestic enterprise if at least 45 percent of the share is owned by Indone- sian nationals with a minimum 20 percent being sold through the stock market. Investment incentives for foreign capital invest- ment in existence before 1984 in the form of tax holidays, investment allowances, loss compensa- tion, and exemptions from dividend taxes have been abolished. The incentives currently applied for for- eign investments are exemption or relief from im- port duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxili- ary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal purposes on vir- tually all machinery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises (PMAs) are eligible to re- ceive customs duty incentives for their imported raw materials needed for two years' production ac- tivity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re- entry permits for six months and are exempted from the Rp 250,000 departure tax. Investors are granted the right to make capital repatriation, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, how- ever, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to In- donesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign ex- change banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresi- dents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 INDONESIA nonresidents. Since October 27, 1988, a 2 percent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no re- serve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or pri- vate companies. Certain borrowing abroad is sub- ject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. The net open foreign exchange position is limited to not more than 25 per- cent of own capital for foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions. Foreign exchange banks' offshore borrowing is not regulated. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na- tionality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in for- eign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indo- nesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement April 30. Foreign exchange banks were required to limit their daily net open position on foreign exchange to less than 25 percent of their own capi- tal. The own capital is the sum of paid-up capital, general and specific reserves, retained earnings, undistributed profits, and subordinated loans. The net open position is defined as the balance between foreign exchange assets and liabilities after admin- istrative expenses are taken into account. Banks that exceed the limit on net open position could incur a sanction that could be considered in the supervision of banking soundness. Controls on foreign ex- change banks' offshore borrowing, which was pre- viously subject to approval by Bank Indonesia, were lifted. September 16. The system of foreign exchange dealings between Bank Indonesia and commercial banks was modified substantially. Henceforth, Bank Indonesia's announced exchange rate would apply only to certain transactions undertaken at certain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks would be free to set their own rates. The purchase and sale of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia would be conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate an- nounced at 8:00 a.m. This rate would also be used for swap and reswap transactions as well as for export draft discounts with Bank Indonesia, which are conducted between 9:00 and 10:00 a.m. Spot and forward transactions, however, would be con- ducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indo- nesia and the bank concerned. After 3:00 p.m. on Monday to Friday and after 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, Bank Indonesia would fix a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions would normally be conducted to compute banks' net open position. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Harmonized System (HS) of tariff classification was introduced, and the rates of customs tariffs and import surcharges on several products were modified. The import duty and the import surcharge on carbofuran were set at the rates of 30 percent and 10 percent, respectively. The im- port surcharge on groundnut oil, palm oil, and co- conut oil-cake was increased to 20 percent, and the import surcharge on alkyl benzene was reimposed at 20 percent. The customs tariff and import sur- charge on several materials used in pesticides (buprofesin, chlorpyrifos, fenitrotion, endosolfan, phenthoate, cartap, phenotan, profoxur, and eth- ophroxipen) were set at 30 percent and 10 percent, respectively. September 22. The monopoly of the Board of Logis- tics (BULOG) to import maize was revoked. Exports and Export Proceeds August 29. The export of manioc (cassava) was allowed only by approved exporters. October 10. The minimum export price for sawn and processed timber was set at US$250 a cubic meter. Specific export taxes, ranging from US$250 to US$2,400 a cubic meter, were imposed on sawn and processed timber. October 17. The export of gold and silver was al- lowed to be conducted only by exporters who pos- sess certification issued by PT Aneka Tambang and with authorization from the Ministry of Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 235 November 1. Exports of pepper were exempted from export regulations and were allowed to be un- dertaken by all companies that possess a license (SIU) or a business license issued by tech- nical departments or nondepartment agencies. November 10. The export tax and export surcharge on finished wood products were increased. state ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. The official exchange rates are determined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate. On December 31, 1989, the official buying and sell- ing rates of Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 69.785 and Rls 70.685, respectively, per US$1. In addition to the official exchange rate, which is applied mainly to exports of oil, imports of essential goods, military items, certain raw materials and machinery, foreign exchange allowances for certain invisibles, and pub- lic sector capital transactions, the exchange rate sys- tem also consists of two "incentive" rates that apply to non-oil exports, a "preferential" rate and a "pref- erential competitive" rate that apply to certain im- ports, a "service" rate used for some invisibles, and the "free" market exchange rate that applies only to Iranian nationals residing in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The following transactions take place at rates that d iffer from the official rate: (1) exporters of non- oil products are required to surrender to Bank Markazi a certain proportion of their export earn- ings (calculated on the basis of "reference prices") at the official rate plus Rls 350 per US$1 when pro- ceeds are received in a convertible currency, or at the official rate plus Rls 270 per US$1 when exports take place within the framework of a barter or clear- ing arrangement. The proportion of export earnings that must be surrendered varies according to the type of non-oil export; the remaining proceeds may be sold in the free market. On December 31, 1989, the exchange rate in the free market was equivalent to approximately Rls 1,140 per US$1; (2) the prefer- ential exchange rate of Rls 420 per US$1 is applied to imports of spare parts used in the production of some durable goods; (3) the preferential competi- tive exchange rate is applied to imports of raw mate- rials and spare parts for the production of 131 items by enterprises affiliated with the public sector and to certain items imported by the private sector. At the end of December 1989, this exchange rate was Rls 800 per US$1; (4) the service rate of Rls 845 per US$1 is applied to the sale of foreign exchange for certain invisible transactions; and (5) all other trans- actions take place in the free market, in which cur- rently only Iranian nationals residing in the Islamic Republic of Iran are allowed to operate. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions other than those permitted through the free exchange market must take place through this Bank or autho- rized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries1 with which the Is- lamic Republic of Iran maintains clearing agree- ments are conducted in accordance with the terms of those agreements. The unit of account of these agreements is usually the U.S. dollar. Settlements of current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (Ban- gladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan,2 and Sri Lanka) are required to be effected in Asian Mone- tary Units (AMUs). Final settlement, when neces- sary, takes place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. Certain payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to the exchange of goods and related services (excluding border trade and petro- leum and petroleum products) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective cen- tral banks in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of petroleum and petroleum products and certain ser- vices are made through special accounts held by the central banks of these three countries. Banking ar- rangements have been concluded with major West- ern European banks to establish "Special Accounts" for clearing payments related to the sale of crude oil in exchange for purchase of a variety of products and raw materials. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. The rial funds to be deposited to the rial accounts 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R, and Yugoslavia. 2 Pakistan, being a member of a separate agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, settles its payments through that agree- ment instead of in AMUs. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 237 must have originated through the sale of foreign exchange to the banking system. The foreign cur- rencies to be deposited must have originated abroad. The balance of the rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce (except for special military and pharmaceuti- cal goods, souvenirs, and gifts brought in by incom- ing travelers) before being registered by authorized banks. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The foreign exchange budget, which is approved by Parliament, establishes allocations for imports by the different ministries and institutions. The ministries and institutions decide how to dis- tribute their own allocations among the different items, including imports by the public and private sectors. All imports require the prior approval of the procurement and distribution centers, except for goods imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other military goods. The import policy is re- examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20). New export-import reg- ulations, effective for the next year, are published by the Ministry of Commerce. The regulations dis- tinguish between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. Authorized goods are those whose import and export, with due consid- eration for the regulations, are permitted. Unautho- rized goods are those whose import and export are temporarily prohibited by the Government or are contingent on the fulfillment of certain require- ments (as explained in the relative tariff). Prohibited goods consist of those whose transactions are forbidden. At the time of registration of imports, (1) a regis- tration fee of 15 percent of the value of the order for ordinary goods and of 5 percent of the value of the order for essential goods, calculated on a c . i .f. basis, is collected by authorized banks; and (2) for some goods, importers must also deposit with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, an additional 15 percent of the c . i .f. value of these goods. Most food items and certain other products are, however, exempt from this registration deposit requirement. The registration deposit, which is not interest bear- ing, is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate or when the order is canceled. If less than 90 percent of the registration value is used, the amount of refund of the registration deposit is in proportion to the unused amount of the registered order. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the transfer of imports from the category in which a registration deposit is required to the exempt cate- gory, and vice versa. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. Monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the export-import regulations the rate of commer- cial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and the permission of the relative procure- ment and distribution center (this permit may be issued at the time of opening of letters of credit and need not be reissued). Goods that are not covered by any center do not require a permission. For some goods, such as pharmaceuticals, imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, and imports of the Atomic Energy Organization, special permission must be presented when they are cleared through the customs. In the transportation of imported goods for which letters of credit have been opened, priority should be accorded to the Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). The ceiling on the amount of goods that an in- coming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the export-import regulations. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance is per- mitted at the daily rate upon the request of the respective insurance company and with the ap- proval of the Central Insurance Company of Iran. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit up to 30 percent of their net sal- aries, with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Limits on remittances by physicians vary from 15 to 60 percent of earnings, depending on the location and condition of their work, as defined by the Min- istry of Health. Possession of a valid passport and a work permit is required for the above-mentioned remittances. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health at the official rate. Those patients whose need for treatment abroad is officially certified but who are not authorized to purchase foreign ex- change at the official rate, and those patients who are permitted to obtain foreign exchange at the offi- cial rate but who do not receive the total amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN needed to finance their medical treatment may pur- chase the additional foreign exchange needed for medical purposes at the service rate. Foreign exchange allowances for students study- ing abroad are provided at the official exchange rate with the approval of the Ministry of Higher Educa- tion. Allowances vary according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a maximum of US$1,170 a month; an additional allowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance is provided, respectively, for the spouse and for each child. In certain cases, where this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts to cover university fees and expenses are provided. Students working abroad and not benefiting from transfers from the Islamic Republic of Iran may re- ceive up to US$150 a month as financial assistance at the "service" rate. Certain categories of students who are not qualified to obtain foreign exchange allowances at the official rate may obtain them at the service rate. An annual foreign exchange allowance of US$500 is granted for business travel at the official rate on approval by the Ministry of Commerce. In addition, up to US$300 once a year is granted for travel, irre- spective of the purpose or destination, at the service rate. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee per trip of Rls 50,000 for the first trip and Rls 100,000 for successive trips. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. The equivalent of US$5,000 may be taken out without declaration at the time of each trip. Foreign currency over this amount may be taken out pro- vided that it was declared at the time of arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products are subject to prevailing regulations on foreign trade. The commercial bene- fit tax and customs duty levied on imported raw materials that are used in the production of man- ufactured goods for export are refunded to the ex- porter after the export has taken place. Exporters of non-oil products are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of goods exported. They may also transfer the declared foreign exchange earn- ings to other individuals for import of certain goods. Export proceeds must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks ac- cept export proceeds normally in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi. With the prior approval of Bank Markazi, other currencies may also be accepted. Proceeds from oil exports are converted at the offi- cial exchange rate, while those from non-oil exports are converted at various multiple rates, depending on the "reference" prices applied and the propor- tion of earnings required to be surrendered (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). In addi- tion, those exporters surrendering foreign exchange equivalent to the value of exports immediately after approval of the export documentation and those exporters using documentary letters of credit are allowed to retain an additional 2 percent of their export proceeds, which is not subject to surrender requirements. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from the export of in- visibles may be retained in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized banks. Transfers from such accounts do not require prior approval of Bank Markazi. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange foreign travelers may bring into the coun- try, but they must sell at least US$150 to US$300 (as specified by the Islamic Republic of Iran's consular officials upon the issuance of entry permits) to the authorized banks. Muslim citizens of other coun- tries and citizens of countries that are party to bilat- eral agreements are exempt from this regulation. Foreign truck drivers, when entering the Islamic Republic of Iran, must convert US$100 worth of convertible currencies into rials; the amount appli- cable to Turkish truck drivers is US$50. Travelers may bring into the country up to Rls 20,000 in Ira- nian bank notes. The equivalent of US$5,000 may be brought into the country without declaration at the time of each trip. Capital Iranian nationals may retain their foreign ex- change earnings, if earned abroad, in foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic authorized banks. Transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign capital in- vestment is supervised by the Organization for In- vestment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Re- patriation of foreign capital and dividends can be made at the official exchange rate with the approval of the said organization and Bank Markazi, and in accordance with the Law Concerning the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investments. Dis- bursements and authorizations of public sector loans take place at the official rate. The net short- term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 27 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 239 Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. Authorized banks may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Imports for industrial and dental use are effected by profes- sional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi; such imports are sub- ject to customs duty, the commercial benefit levy, and an import registration fee. The export of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots or coins, except by Bank Markazi, is prohibited. The export of finished articles made of gold, platinum, and silver may be effected in accordance with the relevant regulations. Passengers may, without prior ap- proval of Bank Markazi, bring in jewelry with a value equivalent to Rls 5 million, which will be re- corded in their passports so that the same may be re- exported. Imports of personal jewelry with a value exceeding this amount require the approval of Bank Markazi. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. of raw materials and spare parts for the production of 131 items by enterprises affiliated with the public sector, was introduced; these imports had pre- viously been allowed at the "free" market rate. October 25. The "preferential competitive" ex- change rate was changed to Rls 975 = US$1. December 7. The "preferential competitive" ex- change rate was changed to Rls 800 = US$1. The private sector was allowed to import certain items, such as new materials and spare parts for the pro- duction of certain durable goods at the "preferen- tial" exchange rate of Rls 420 = US$1. December 7. A "service" exchange rate of Rls 845 = US$1, to be applicable to sales of foreign ex- change for certain service transactions to qualified individuals, was introduced. Prescription of Currency March 30. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was terminated. June 13. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was terminated. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement October 8. A "preferential competitive" exchange rate of Rls 1,000 = US$1, to be applicable to imports Payments for Invisibles December 7. An annual travel allowance of up to US$300 a person was granted, irrespective of the purpose of travel and destination, at the "service" exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1989 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with au- thorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this au- thority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy, who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Committee on Foreign Exchange. Cer- tain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Su- pervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. Branches of the Rafi- dain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. Import policy and the annual program are formulated by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 240 The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, foreign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempted from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementa- tion of these projects, including income taxes due on earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These ex- emptions apply to new projects that are contracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, ceased to be effective, except that its provi- sions continue to apply to projects that were con- tracted before Resolution No. 767 took effect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in princi- ple, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the ex- change control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign ex- change obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 241 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are per- mitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 percent of annual income ac- crued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts pro- vided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is insured and is working in the private sector. Noncontractual workers employed by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month for skilled workers em- ployed in the nationalized sector. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The regulations provide, in principle, for a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad on the basis of the classification of foreign countries into two categories as follows. The basic allowance for travel to a country in the first category is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 150 for persons under 18 years of age) traveling to Arab and socialist countries, Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece. For the second category, which includes all other coun- tries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years of age). The individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad to countries in the first category ranges between ID 30 and ID 60 a person a day depending on status and duration of mission; for countries in the second category, the allowance ranges between ID 40 and ID 75 a day. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as In- dia, socialist countries, and North Africa) where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance, in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for personal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons un- der 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Ministry of Trade has authority to pro- hibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are li- censed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters gener- ally must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to surrender them within two months of shipment. Exporters may re- tain their export proceeds in foreign exchange ac- counts with the commercial banks and use them to pay for imports that are licensed. Financial support is granted under an export sub- sidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non-oil exports provide financial incen- tives to eligible exports. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their com- petitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Is- raeli currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Iraqi nationals are allowed to bring in convertible foreign currencies, deposit them with a licensed dealer, and use the funds to purchase goods from duty-free shops. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Rev- olutionary Command Council, enacted in Novem- ber 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) par- ticipation is allowed in the capital of private sector ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 IRAQ companies, but citizens of Arab states may partici- pate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agri- cultural services, and tourism sectors. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may trans- fer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to the international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds were deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals resident abroad (or their legal representatives) may with- draw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 10,000 a year in three installments to cover per- sonal expenses inside the country. Under the Industrial Investment Regulation Law for private and mixed sectors (No. 115 of 1982), certain incentives and guarantees are granted to approved investments of domestic or Arab capital in Iraq. In addition, Arab capital invested in Iraq is accorded preferential treatment in different eco- nomic sectors. Arab farmers having contracts with the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation are per- mitted to transfer abroad annually up to 50 percent of their individual net return, subject to a limit of ID 500. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab na- tionals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital par- ticipation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million, and (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be dis- tributed to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of their paid in capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 dated October 10,1987, an Iraqi resident, nonresident, or a foreigner may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that it is declared upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. The export and import of gold for commercial purposes are not permitted. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Mon- etary System (EMS). In accordance with this agree- ment, Ireland maintains the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent1) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1989, these rates were as follows: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.8510 1.7695 100 Danish kroner 10.0087 9.5683 100 deutsche mark 38.1825 36.4964 100 French francs 11.3830 10.8825 100 Italian lire 0.0549952 0.0487799 100 Netherlands guilders 33.8868 32.3939 100 Spanish pesetas 0.609772 0.540858 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 29,1989, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.5563 per £Irl. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Access to the forward exchange market is regu- lated. Forward cover is permitted for the import and export of goods and services, and forward contracts must correspond in all aspects to the underlying commercial transactions. The minimum and max- imum maturity periods for which forward exchange transactions are permitted are 21 days and 12 months, respectively, except in the case of forward purchases of foreign exchange by banks, where up to 2 years is permitted. The Central Bank intervenes irThe margins of the Italian lira were reduced -to plus or minus 2.25 percent, effective January 8, 1990. 243 in the forward market intermittently. These inter- ventions are primarily intended to influence banks' liquidity positions and not the forward exchange rate. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank.2 Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks autho- rized for this purpose (authorized dealers). Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Depart- ment of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agri- culture and Food if they are agricultural in charac- ter; import licenses are also issued by the Depart- ment of Tourism and Transport, and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonres- idents —that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprise two categories: (1) residents of Euro- pean Communities (EC) member countries, and (2) residents of all other countries. Payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are des- ignated external accounts. All credits in excess of £Ir250,000 to external accounts held by nonbanks with financial institutions require specific approval 2Effective April 1, 1990, exchange controls were liberalized. The liberalization measures were aimed at reducing administrative requirements associated with exchange controls and at permit- ting greater access to some of the newer financial investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 IRELAND by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports of goods or services into Ireland. There are also limits on maximum balances in exter- nal accounts of nonresident banks; balances in ex- cess of £Ir250,000 may not be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. External accounts may be credited with payments that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, with transfers from other external accounts, payments for any for- eign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes received from abroad in denominations not exceeding £Ir20, pay- ments from within the country up to £Ir250 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other external accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any for- eign currency; these accounts are generally subject to the same requirements as external accounts. Au- thorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, tires, and ceramic products) originating in certain non-EC countries are subject to either quan- titative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EC countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC may be subject to various charges, such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs tar iff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and fire- arms and ammunition) are prohibited without spe- cial licenses. Prior permission from the Central Bank is re- quired to pay for goods not being imported into Ireland or if payment is not being made in an ap- proved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign cur- rency. For permitted imports, permission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Authority to make payments is delegated to autho- rized dealers. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £Ir50,000 (as of Jan- uary 1, 1988). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require verification. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invis- ibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance in foreign currency for residents of Ireland of £Irl,200 a person for each trip, or when the trip exceeds two months, £Ir5,000. For business travel, up to £Ir5,000 at a rate of £Ir200 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for educa- tion and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unautho- rized export of capital is involved. Not more than £Irl,200 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to £Irl50 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any for- eign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a lim- ited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of ship- ment if their value exceeds £Ir250. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £Ir50,000 and must be shown to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be re- patriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received, they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date of return. There are no limita- tions on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior Central Bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denominations exceeding £Ir20 to external accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to au- thorized dealers; other payments require Central Bank approval. There are no restrictions on asset transfers for Irish residents taking up permanent residence abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 245 The inflow of capital is not restricted, but inward direct investment requires exchange control ap- proval. The purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in for- eign currencies must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. The Central Bank approves applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased from Irish pounds. The acquisition of personal property located outside the EC is permitted, subject to a limit of £Ir50,000 a property and one property for each family unit. Up to 25 percent of the cost may be met by purchasing foreign exchange with Irish pounds, and the re- mainder must be loans in foreign currency. Borrow- ings may be repaid with foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer when they are not in- tended to be invested in another property or to repay borrowing. The forward currency transactions of commercial banks are subject to limits, which vary from bank to bank, depending on the institution's level of par- ticipation in the foreign exchange market. Effective January 1, 1989, all restrictions on pur- chases of foreign securities with maturities exceed- ing two years were eliminated. Transactions in foreign currency securities with maturities of less than two years are monitored to limit the amount of capital transferred outside Ire- land. All transactions in foreign currency securities must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Where such se- curities are sold, the proceeds must either be rein- vested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three-month period, in the absence of the spe- cific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Domestic institutional investors (e.g., autho- rized insurers, pension funds, and registered unit trusts) were allowed to purchase in 1989 at the cur- rent rate of exchange short-term foreign securities (i.e., with maturities of less than two years at issue) up to a limit of 12.5 percent of their previous year's net Irish pound cash flow. Effective January 1, 1989, all exchange controls applied to the sales of existing holdings of securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) were abolished. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval. Up to 25 percent of the cost of approved outward investments in non-EC countries may be financed by conversion from Irish pounds, and the balance through foreign borrowing. Use of Irish pounds is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered se- curities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an external account or the sale proceeds of other Irish securities; purchases in ex- cess of £IrlOO,000 require notification to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to £Ir3,000 a donor a calen- dar year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are approved. Foreign currency may be borrowed by residents for any purpose. The approval of the Central Bank must be obtained when the borrowing is not for the financing of trade. Lending of Irish currency to non- residents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that the nonresidents are parties to commer- cial transactions with residents. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplo- matic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio in- vestment, a subsidiary or branch of a company con- trolled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the financing it requires for its opera- tion in Ireland. In the case of companies controlled from a non-EC country, working capital may be borrowed locally. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. In accordance with a regulation of the EC Council dated October 27,1986, Ireland does not permit the putting into free circulation of gold coins minted after 1960 that originated in the Republic of South Africa. Although there are no other import restric- tions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission is also required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 IRELAND fide numismatic or industrial purposes, respec- tively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) Capital January 1. (I) All restrictions on purchases of for- eign securities with maturities exceeding two years were eliminated; and (2) exchange controls applied to the sales of existing holdings of securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the Eu- ropean Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural, Sheqalim), the external value of which is linked to a basket consisting of the following five major curren- cies: the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Prior to 1989, the authorities did not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; with effect from January 3, 1989, actual daily rates are estab- lished by the Bank of Israel within margins of 3 per- cent around the rate fixed in relation to the basket. On December 29, 1989, the noon midpoint ex- change rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 1.9630 - US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange, and a levy of 1 percent of the transaction value is imposed on purchases of foreign exchange by the public, including those involving foreign currency- denominated PATAM accounts (see below). An ex- change rate insurance scheme covering export re- ceipts is in operation (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Forward exchange transactions are permitted. Purchases and sales of currency options issued by the authorized dealers are permitted, provided that they are intended to cover exchange rate risk arising from authorized trade and capital transactions and are conducted through the authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. count into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonresident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, in- cluding transfers between nonresidents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Develop- ment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency de- posits with authorized banks in Israel in either non- resident deposit accounts, which may, subject to conditions, be held by exporters and recent immi- grants to Israel, or PATAM (resident foreign cur- rency deposit) -Restitution accounts, which may be held only by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. Otherwise, resi- dents may deposit foreign exchange they receive legally from abroad in PATAM accounts. In addition, residents may maintain in certain PATAM accounts foreign currency purchased prior to August 3, 1989 against sheqalim. Banks are re- quired to redeposit 100 percent of PATAM demand and time deposits with the Bank of Israel. Since Au- gust 3, 1989, the permit allowing Israel residents to purchase foreign currency for a PATAM deposit has been revoked. Instead, residents may open PATZAM (new sheqel deposit linked to foreign cur- rency) accounts with a maturity of longer than one year. PATAM-Restitution accounts are also demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with authorized banks, which must redeposit 90 percent of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in restitution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM-Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 as additional travel exchange allocation. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency ac- count. He may also convert funds held on the ac- Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. Imports of iron and steel products from South Af- rica are prohibited (imports effected under con- tracts entered into before September 17, 1987 are, however, permitted). With some exceptions, im- ports are free of licensing and administrative or 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 ISRAEL quantitative restrictions. Some imports on a Re- stricted List are subject to approval; this list includes most agricultural products, beverages, certain tex- tiles, explosives and inflammables, and specified items of machinery and metal products. The import of soybeans, which was once under government procurement, has been liberalized and any food processing plant can import them directly. Foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presentation of relevant documents (import documents, bills of lad- ing, and letters of credit). Advance payments for imports are permitted up to 35 percent. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repay- ment of suppliers' credits. A value-added tax of 15 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegetables. A 2 percent duty is levied on imports from any origin. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on ac- count of invisibles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$2,000 a person for each journey, regardless of age. The business travel allowance is US$150 a day, up to a maximum of US$3,000 a trip (in addition to the standard allowance of US$2,000). The allowance can be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, credit cards, or other foreign exchange in- struments. Foreign exchange use by means of credit cards is included in the travel allowance. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceed- ing the equivalent of US$50 a person a trip. Israeli residents over 2 years of age traveling abroad are subject to a travel tax of MS 250 on departure. (One half of the standard rate remains in effect for travel to Romania, and travel to Egypt remains exempt from tax.) Payments for hotel accommodation, land transport, and other related services under foreign package tours, along with other imports of services, are subject to the value-added tax of 15 percent. Residents may make family support and gift remit- tances abroad up to US$1,000 a year. The maximum exchange allowance for students studying at institu- tions of higher education abroad is US$500 a month. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equivalent of US$100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$100. The right of a tourist to buy foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, is limited during a visit to US$5,000 for a person over 18 years of age and to US$2,000 for a person under 18 years. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for sanitary control. Exports of oil and defense equip- ment (and signing of defense contracts) to South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be sur- rendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Com- pany (FTIC) provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable movements in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the new sheqel against the basket of five currencies to which the external value of the new sheqel is linked (see section on Exchange Ar- rangement, above). The scheme covers exporters' value added. In return for a premium based on the value added of his exports, an exporter receives cover against any real appreciation of the new she- qel in relation to the basket of currencies. The pre- mium rate is established on the basis of average expected inflation in the partner countries and the relationships among the forward exchange rates of the currencies constituting the basket. Exporters would receive payments from the FTIC if the real depreciation was less than expected, whereas they would make payments to the FTIC if it was greater. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in gen- eral, be surrendered to an authorized dealer, or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resi- dent is free to accept specified convertible curren- cies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with autho- rized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 249 are no limits on the amounts of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferen- tial treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these investments. Ap- provals granted under the law are classified as "ap- proved enterprises/' "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to economically viable enterprises (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, and agriculture (a separate law applies to agriculture); (2) established in priority areas; or (3) contributing to improve- ments in the balance of payments. Approved invest- ment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; how- ever, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years, and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 per- cent a year. Certain restrictions apply to foreign currency bor- rowing from abroad by residents. A freeze is in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing with aver- age maturity of less than 18 months by nonbank residents, other than suppliers' credits and loans obtained by residents engaged in export activities. The annual rate of interest on loans obtained abroad may not exceed LIBOR plus 1.5 percent, net of tax. Under the official export credit regime (governing preferential but not subsidized access to foreign currency financing for the production period of ex- ports) the exporter may obtain credit from any source. Guarantees of such export financing by Is- raeli banks are permitted; the interest rate under the scheme consists of LIBOR plus 1 percentage point as the "base" plus a risk premium of 0-2 percentage points. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents who own trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in foreign currency investments). Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets. Residents may not buy foreign securities abroad, with the exception of specified types of Israeli firms' securities issued abroad with the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immi- grants require a special permit from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Emigrants are permitted to transfer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equiv- alent of US$2,000 a year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real es- tate and shares in Israel. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency through an autho- rized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Investments abroad by Israeli residents are sub- ject to a value-added tax of 7.5 percent. Gold Gold bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Gold bullion and coins for investment, or certificates conferring a right to gold bullion, must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer; beginning from January 16,1984, residents have not been permitted to buy gold bullion or coins for investment purposes. The following bullion coins are at present in- cluded in the list of gold coins for investment: (1) Krugerrand of South Africa; (2) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (3) 50 pesos of Mexico; (4) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (5) sovereigns of Great Britain; (6) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (7) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Is- raeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 15 percent. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 3. The new sheqel was devalued by 8 per- cent against the currency basket, and the Bank of Israel was authorized to set the daily exchange rates within margins of 3 percent around the new basic rate fixed in relation to the basket. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 ISRAEL June 23. The new sheqel was devalued by 4.4 per- cent against the currency basket. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Customs tariffs were eliminated on im- ports covered by the free trade agreement with the EC countries; tariffs were also abolished or reduced on a large number of imports from the United States in accordance with the free trade agreement. January 5. The amount of prepayments allowed for imports of equipment and machinery was in- creased to 35 percent from 15 percent, and for other imports, to US$100,000 from US$50,000 but not more than 35 percent. Payments for Invisibles April 19. The rate of the value-added tax on pay- ments for services was reduced to 7.5 percent from 15 percent. September 1. The value-added tax on payments for services, except tourism, was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The premium rate under the FTIC was changed to 4.1 percent. July 1. The premium rate under the FTIC was changed to 4.9 percent. Capital January 5. The minimum term on loans obtained by residents was reduced to 24 months from 30 months. (It was further reduced to 18 months on April 1,1989.) The maximum interest rate ceiling of LIBOR plus 1.5 percent remained unchanged. The preferential export credit scheme was liberalized, whereby the exporter was no longer restricted to obtain financing arranged by Israeli banks, but was permitted to obtain financing from any sources and guarantees of such financing for the export produc- tion period by Israeli banks. The previous interest rate under the scheme, generally corresponding to LIBOR plus 2 percent, was replaced by a range consisting of LIBOR plus 1 percent as the "base," plus a risk premium (differentiated for each bor- rower) of 0-2 percent. June 2. Residents who own trust funds were per- mitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in foreign currency investments). August 3. A foreign resident's right to reconvert the proceeds of his investment was expanded to include investments in debentures issued by Israeli companies whose stocks are traded in the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, excluding those issued by banking institutions or guaranteed by them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Lux- embourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the ex- change rate and intervention mechanism of the Eu- ropean Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs).1 The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The partici- pants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. How- ever, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are quoted daily. On December 29, 1989, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,270.5 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, intervene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency and can, without au- thorization, buy foreign currency futures at foreign exchanges. A reserve requirement equal to 25 per- cent of the increase in net foreign currency deposits is applied to authorized banks' foreign currency deposits. Forward cover is freely permitted for com- mercial and financial transactions when effected through authorized banks. These banks are subject Affective January 5, 1990, these margins were reduced to 2.25 percent (i.e., the same margins as applied by other partici- pants of the EMS) when the lira was realigned within the EMS. 2Currencies quoted are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. to the following regulations: (1) their foreign ex- change position on a daily basis may not exceed 5 percent of the average of their spot foreign ex- change assets at the end of the previous three months; (2) they may have a net creditor external position in foreign currencies only up to the limit permitted for the overall foreign exchange position; (3) they may not have a net creditor external position in lire (i.e., their lending in lire abroad may not exceed their fund-raising in lire from nonresidents); and (4) forward transactions may be offset against spot operations in the opposite direction only up to the spot-against forward ceiling, allotted to each bank by the Italian Foreign Exchange Office and increased by not less than 50 percent in relation to the situation prevailing on September 30,1988. Au- thorized banks may also write foreign exchange options for sale to residents and nonresidents, pro- vided that such operations are matched globally by transactions in the opposite direction according to currency, amount, and maturity. Residents are per- mitted to conduct currency options from authorized banks for all foreign transactions but may conduct forward or currency option transactions in foreign exchange only with residents. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi, or UIC). All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. On October 1,1988, a new foreign exchange control law entered into force. It is based on the principle that all commercial and financial transactions by residents with nonresidents are free unless they are specifically restricted by the law. As of the same date, residents are free to carry out foreign transac- tions, with the following exceptions: (1) residents are not allowed to hold funds in bank accounts abroad and they must surrender foreign currencies to the authorized banks;3 (2) nonbank residents are not allowed to extend credit lines to nonresidents or 3However, foreign currency acquired in connection with com- mercial and financial transactions can be held in accounts with domestic banks for up to 120 days. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 ITALY to purchase money market instruments abroad with a residual maturity of less than 180 days;4 and (3) residents are required to channel all foreign transactions through banks authorized by the Bank of Italy to deal in foreign exchange, and to keep in deposit with them their foreign securities acquired abroad. The Government may impose restrictions on foreign transactions on a temporary basis to con- tain short-term pressures on the balance of pay- ments or instability in the foreign exchange market. However, the expiration dates for all such measures would be specified at the time of the announcement of the measure. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino and Vatican City are made in internal lire and are therefore not subject to exchange control. For statistical and monitoring purposes, foreign currency transfers and foreign exchange transac- tions must be channeled via authorized intermedi- aries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and, subject to certain limitations, the Postal Administration). Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to maintain Foreign Ac- counts with authorized banks in lire and in foreign exchange. Foreign Accounts in lire may be credited with trans- fers from other Foreign Accounts, with lire from current and capital payments, and with the pro- ceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited, upon the holder's request, for pur- chases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Foreign Accounts in foreign exchange may be cred- ited with foreign exchange receipts from abroad, transfers from other Foreign Accounts (in foreign exchange), payments from residents for authorized transactions, and receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by the Decree of Decem- ber 24, 1987 (No. 589), which entered into effect on 4Effective March 2, 1990, this limit was eliminated. January 1, 1988. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (European Communities (EC) coun- tries, Guadeloupe, French Guyana, Martinique, and Reunion), A/2 (overseas countries and territo- ries, member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Albania, the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quan- titative restrictions and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are restricted. For im- ports from countries in Zone B, as well as from Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks, upon request of the interested operators who must fill out a form for monitoring and statistical pur- poses, provide foreign exchange and effect pay- ments.5 International postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject to a limit for each transaction (of Lit 5 million). Balances held by resi- dents in Foreign Exchange Accounts in domestic banks for foreign exchange purchases for commer- cial and financial transactions abroad are subject to a 120-day limit. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for payments for invisibles listed in Annex III of the Rome Treaty, provided that the necessary form, where required, is submitted. Residents may use international postal money orders for payments, up to a maximum amount of Lit 5 million. 5For transactions up to Lit 10 million, the operator is required to make only a verbal declaration. For operations exceeding Lit 10 million but less than Lit 20 million, forms must be filled out. For operations exceeding Lit 20 million, documents must be submit- ted together with forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 253 There are no limits on expenditures for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education. Resi- dents traveling to foreign countries may export Ital- ian bank notes up to Lit 1 million, and carry with them credit cards and payment instruments in for- eign currencies and external lire without limit, pro- vided that any amount in excess of Lit 2.5 million has been acquired from the authorized banks. Resi- dents traveling abroad may write nontransferable checks in favor of nonresidents, drawing on their domestic bank accounts up to Lit 10 million for related expenses. Nonresidents can freely take out foreign ex- change up to the equivalent of Lit 5 million without showing proof that foreign exchange has been brought into Italy. They can also take out Lit 1 mil- lion in Italian bank notes; they may export larger amounts by providing proof of acquisition in Italy or previous importation. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of products on a special list (tabella esport) require export licenses; other ex- ports do not require authorization. Resident export- ers are required to channel all foreign transactions through authorized banks and can hold currency acquired in connection with exports in accounts with domestic banks only up to 120 days. For ex- ports exceeding Lit 10 million in value, a form is required; for exports exceeding Lit 20 billion in value, the form must be accompanied by export documents. All export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized banks within 60 days of effective receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Jap- anese yen, Australian dollars, and externally con- vertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in For- eign Exchange Accounts for up to 120 days, during which period such balances may be used for permit- ted transactions or sold to authorized banks.6 In cases where authorized banks have not received adequate information to enable them to release the funds, the balances may be posted to Ordinary Waiting Accounts (conti di attesa) for a period of up to 60 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary information is not received during the 60-day wait- ing period, the proceeds must be returned abroad or assigned to the UIC upon completion of the trans- action and will be converted into lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the waiting period. Export proceeds may also be received by interna- tional postal money order, and in foreign bank notes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender require- ments as receipts from exports. Shipping and insur- ance companies and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accounts (conti autorizzati) in U.S. dol- lars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, and externally convertible European cur- rencies; unused balances must be surrendered peri- odically. Residents may retain foreign bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of Lit 2.5 million. Per- sons may bring in any amount in foreign or domes- tic bank notes. Capital Residents are free to undertake, through autho- rized banks, most financial transactions, including direct investments and purchases and sales of any foreign securities, except bonds and money market instruments with a residual maturity of less than 180 days,7 real estate investments, and loans. For- eign securities, except securities with a value of Lit 5 million or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for an account of an Italian bank. Residents are free to borrow abroad and to lend to nonresidents. Foreign investments in Italy, of any kind, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are free, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for indus- trial purposes. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Authorized banks may acquire unrefined gold abroad, with the autho- rization of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to sell to Italian firms. Exports of wrought and semimanufac- tured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licens- ing. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to value-added tax. The exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country is freely allowed against payment. Imports of other gold coins for numismatic purposes are free but subject to value- added tax at 19 percent. Effective March 2, 1990, this time limit was abolished. 7Effective March 2, 1990, this exception was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 ITALY Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 16. Intervention rates under the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System were established for the Spanish peseta at Lit 11.773 (upper) and Lit 10.442 (lower) per Ptas. 1. October 23. The daily foreign exchange position of authorized banks was not allowed to exceed 5 per- cent of the average of their spot foreign exchange assets at the end of the previous three months. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) January 1. The VAT on imports of wine-coolers was raised to 19 percent from 9 percent. January 3. A specific tax of Lit 100 was imposed on imports of nonbiodegradable plastic shopping bags. February 28. The import of 61 product categories from state trading countries was liberalized. July 18. Quantitative restrictions on imports of 49 product categories from Japan were abolished. Payments for Invisibles March 10. The amount of checks residents travel- ing abroad may write against their domestic bank acounts was increased to Lit 10 million from Lit 5 million. Exports and Export Proceeds March 10. The waiting period for the Ordinary Waiting Accounts (conti di attesa) was extended to 60 days from 30 days. Capital February 17. The marginal reserve ratio on autho- rized banks' net foreign currency deposit liabilities (which had been equal to zero since September 13, 1987) was raised to 25 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, atj$6.50 = US$1. Applications for foreign exchange, except for small over-the-counter trans- actions, must be presented through the commercial banks to the Bank of Jamaica each Wednesday. Requests for US$50,000 and over may be submit- ted directly to the Bank of Jamaica. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$6.46 = US$1 and J$6.50 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except that exporters of manufactured goods, excluding petroleum prod- ucts and garments assembled from materials im- ported from the United States, to countries other than Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries, are paid a rebate equal to 7lk percent of f.o.b. export receipts. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings in Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in specified currencies.1 For spot dealings with com- mercial banks in these currencies, the Bank of Ja- maica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 percent on sales. For currencies of countries that are not members of CARICOM, the commercial banks apply a commission charge varying between 2 cents and 15 cents a unit of foreign currency on sales and purchases. For currencies of CARICOM members, the commercial banks apply a commis- sion charge of 0.3361 percent on sales and a dis- count charge of 0.25 percent on purchases. On September 12, 1989, the forward market for foreign exchange was reintroduced. The market is operated by the commercial banks at rates negoti- ated with their customers and is subject to certain regulations issued by the Bank of Jamaica. All con- tracts must have a maturity of between 30 and 180 days, and any recipient of foreign exchange except traditional exporters may sell foreign ex- 1 Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Venezuelan bolivares, and the curren- cies of member countries of CARICOM. The CARICOM member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. change in this market.2 Those eligible to purchase spot foreign exchange at the Bank of Jamaica are also entitled to purchase foreign exchange forward. The Bank of Jamaica has set an overall limit for all banks of US$30.5 million for the amount of forward sales outstanding and US$10.2 million for their net position at any time. Each commercial bank is sub- ject to an individual limit under each of these totals. The Bank of Jamaica reserves the right to participate in the forward market. The Bank of Jamaica provides exchange rate guarantees to certain im- porters who use extended credit facilities. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and act as agents of the Bank of Jamaica in respect of trade and most service transactions. Since April 16, 1985, import licenses have been required only for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, wood products, and items potentially harmful to public health or security. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an External Account or a foreign currency account.3 Receipts from all coun- tries must be received by debit of an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency. 2Primarily exporters of bauxite and alumina, sugar, bananas, coffee, cocoa, citrus, and pimento, and the tourist sector. 3A11 currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 JAMAICA Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresi- dents, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and proceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) are des- ignated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for in- vestment in Jamaica dollar securities, local mort- gages, or other investments approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Since April 1984, all payments from abroad to Jamaican hoteliers must be paid into a special ac- count of the Bank of Jamaica, the Jamaican National Retained Account (JNRA). Hotels are allowed to obtain foreign exchange to satisfy their import re- quirements and service payments up to a limit of 20 percent of their lodgments. Net amounts due to hotels are reimbursed by the Bank of Jamaica in Jamaican dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, South Africa are prohibited. Import licenses are required for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertil- izers, pharmaceutical products, wood products, and items endangering public health or security. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of CAR- ICOM. Certain food items and all motor vehicles may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC). Imports of petroleum products and cement are also restricted to certain public sector entities. Other- wise, goods may be imported freely without license. Payments for imports may be made by commer- cial banks without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Exchange control approval is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000, but is generally granted. Under the current system for providing foreign exchange for commercial transactions, ap- plicants must submit to the Bank of Jamaica the import clearance document together with the local currency. Imports are subject to customs tariffs in com- pliance with the Common External Tariff Arrange- ment of CARICOM. Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports plus any customs tariffs (ex- cluding imports from the CARICOM area). The gen- eral structure of taxes on foreign trade is as follows: (1) for capital goods, the total of customs tariffs and stamp duty is set at 20 percent, unless customs tariffs are above 20 percent under the Common External Tariff (CET) Arrangement of CARICOM, in which case the full duty rate applies; (2) raw mate- rials are subject to a maximum combined custom tariff and stamp duty rate of 10 percent; (3) con- sumer goods are subject to a maximum combined customs tariff and stamp duty rate of 60 percent, unless the customs tariff rate is above 60 percent under the CET, in which case the full customs tariff rate applies. Only a few products are subject to a customs tariff rate of more than 60 percent. Two exceptions to this duty structure are: (1) cer- tain basic food products are imported by JCTC and sold at subsidized prices; and (2) protective stamp duties are levied on certain agricultural products (up to 95 percent) on a minimum invoice value. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for most service transactions, includ- ing business and other travel, medical expenses, foreign exchange refund, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. All other service payments re- quire the prior approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Foreign exchange is made available for remittance of income from emigrants' properties and for remit- tance for family maintenance, subject to a limit of US$2,000 a year for each category. Amounts exceed- ing these limits may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. In addition, a limit of US$100 a year is applied to cash gift remit- tances. All interest and dividends payable to non- resident investors are approved, net of taxes, with- out restriction, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 257 A basic exchange allowance of US$300 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel, other than for business or professional purposes, is made avail- able to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and profes- sional purposes is subject to a maximum allowance of US$200 a day for a period not exceeding five days in any one calendar month. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their net salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated as- sets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Ja- maica bank notes not exceeding J$20. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.4 However, specific li- censes are required for the export of certain agri- cultural products, ammunition, explosives, fire- arms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months of the date of shipment. Exporters of manufactured goods, excluding petroleum prod- ucts and garments assembled from materials im- ported from the United States under 807 arrange- ments and to non-CARicoM countries, are paid a rebate equal to 7Vz percent of f.o.b. export values. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a traveler. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to convert their foreign currencies to settle their hotel bills in Jamaican currency. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the ex- change control authorities and are not approved 4This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, South Africa, and the U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require a specific license. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. unless they are expected to result in tangible bene- fits for Jamaica. The purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents also requires the ap- proval of the exchange control authorities, but this is normally granted. With the exception of certain types of investment in residential and commercial real estate, all ap- proved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresi- dents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to remit all current payments, including interest and dividends relating to the investments, and will at any time be able to repatriate his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to non-resident- controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be non-resident-controlled when the controlling inter- est is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. There is a fixed-term foreign currency deposit scheme for both residents and nonresidents. Pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services are not allowed to be credited to these accounts. Accounts under this scheme may be credited with any means of payment, except cash or traveler's checks, but the transactions must be effected through a commercial bank; the deposits are freely repatriable upon maturity. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, non- residents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent of the appraised value. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are al- lowed to remit from Jamaica the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica. In the case of property not fully developed, the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in five equal installments, commencing one year after the realiz- ation of the gain, subject to a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000, except when the owner had previously received an undertaking that the investment in land carried approved status. If the property is fully de- veloped, the balance can be remitted over two years, commencing one year after the realization of the gains. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 JAMAICA Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots may remit in full the proceeds of sale, provided the unit is not sold within two years of completion of the construction and the vendor has conformed to the Taxation and Exchange Con- trol Acts. If the unit is sold within two years of completion, the investor may remit the original in- vestment immediately, and the balance over two years, with a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain commercial bank debts into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation is prohibited for three years, and capital repatriation is also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors, and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents, other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. All commercial im- ports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement September 12. The forward market for foreign ex- change was reintroduced. November 1. The auction foreign exchange market was discontinued, and the external value of the Jamaican dollar was pegged to the U.S. dollar at J$6.50 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles October 17. The maximum period for which the commercial banks are authorized to issue business travel allowance to each traveler was reduced to five days in each calendar month. Applications for funds for trips of more than five days are processed by the Bank of Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1989 was ¥ 143.45 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their customers, nonresident banks, and among them- selves. Forward exchange contracts may be negoti- ated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interna- tional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, how- ever, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export- reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments are under the jurisdic- tion of the Minister of Finance and other appropri- ate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be con- verted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be re- stricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 70 items (4-digit Customs Coopera- tion Council Nomenclature (CCCN) base), 21 of which have been communicated to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as residual restrictions, while the remaining items fall under the state-trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an im- port license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the impor- tation of certain other goods from specified coun- tries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state trading include beef, certain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payments for imports may be effected up to two years before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require an im- port license from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without any limitation. Gifts and donations (except by govern- ment institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad, as well as other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign cur- rencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire for- eign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any foreign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 million. Overseas de- posits with a maturity of less than two years by 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 JAPAN resident individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 30 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, and securities are per- mitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Ex- change and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export re- straint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, ex- port prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1989, voluntary export restraints and floor prices were applied to exports of certain textile items and ma- chine tools to the United States and the European Communities (EC), to exports of passenger cars and selected steel products to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EC. In addition, exports of some other products, including pas- senger cars to the EC and Sweden and video re- corders to the EC, were subject to monitoring by the Japanese Government. At the end of 1988, there were 54 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 5 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export trans- actions, 13 required prior approval of manufac- turers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 36 required prior notice of a memorandum of an exporters' cooperative associa- tion in respect of export transactions. In addition, 217 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist coun- tries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten ore), or to forestall the im- position of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Ex- ports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimport require individual licenses; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open ac- count or those involving payment not earlier than two years after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be ac- cepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Jap- anese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless specifically required to follow certain procedures. Such specific procedures may take the form of re- quiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the minister or minis- ters concerned may request or order that the trans- action be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio can be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors can freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, ac- quisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice without a waiting period. Under emergency condi- tions, however, most capital transactions that are not subject to prior approval in normal conditions may be subject to prior approval. Emergency condi- tions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equi- librium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma- jority equity ownership of enterprises or establish- ment of branch operations, investment that comes under the direct investment regulations includes (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transac- tions is made public by the Securities Dealers Asso- ciation) that reaches 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year matu- rity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business ob- jectives of a company with one-third or more for- eign ownership is also subject to the provisions for direct investment. Requests or orders for suspen- sion or modification of specific aspects of the trans- action may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, pub- lic safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 261 Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, usance of not less than two years, issue of yen-denominated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct investment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in his opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing, (2) domestic and financial capital markets, (3) bus- iness activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Fi- nance may shorten the notification period when the transaction under consideration is deemed unharm- ful. Other transactions by nonresidents may gener- ally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by resi- dents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those car- ried out by an authorized bank in Japan require prior approval. Other external transactions by resi- dents may normally be carried out freely. Residents are permitted to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve require- ments adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. The following prudential guidelines are applied to capital transactions by financial institutions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of se- curities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 per- cent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insur- ance Fund of bonds issued by nonresidents equiv- alent to 20 percent of the reserve funds; (4) a ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds managed by trust banks equiv- alent to 30 percent of pension trust assets; (5) a ceiling on insurance companies' individual loans of ¥ 5 billion; (6) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresi- dents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (7) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion are free from licensing. External fu tures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Imports of processed cheese, tomato juice, tomato ketchup, and other tomato sauce were liberalized. The customs tariff rates on 123 tropical products were reduced. September 20. Imports of ivory were prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The voluntary export restraints on ship- men,ts of passenger cars to the United States for the period April 1, 1989-March 31, 1990 were set at 2.3 million units, the same as those that applied during the previous 12-month period. April 4. The voluntary export restraint quota on exports of passenger cars to the EC during 1989 was increased by 3 percent over the 1988 level. October 1. The voluntary export restraint quota on exports of steel to the United States was extended up to March 30,1992 and was reduced from 5.8 per- cent to 5.0 percent of the total consumption of the United States. Capital January 4. The new portfolio investment guide- lines for foreign exchange banks were announced. The guidelines included: (1) the abolishment of the risk assets ratio requirement and the introduction of the BIS (Bank for International Settlements) port- folio investment guidelines; (2) the introduction of ceilings on lending to specified countries of 40 per- cent of equity capital; and (3) the requirement that the liquidity ratio in foreign currency deposits be reported to the competent authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 JAPAN January 31. Investments in the form of foreign cur- rency deposits by investment trusts were permitted. February 1. The ceiling on investments in foreign bonds by loan trust and money trust was raised to 5 percent from 3 percent of the total assets. April 1. The ceiling on the monthly transactions between the Japanese offshore market and the do- mestic markets was raised to 10 percent from 5 per- cent of the total average investment balance of par- ticipants in the previous month. May 1. The voluntary restraints on medium- and long-term yen-denominated lending by foreign ex- change banks located outside Japan were abolished. June 16. The issuance of yen-denominated bonds in foreign markets by nonresidents was fully liber- alized with the abolishment of the restrictions on maturities and issuance eligibility standards. June 24. The limit on the sale of bonds issued in foreign markets to domestic investors of up to 50 percent of total issuance was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, in which the exchange rate of the Jordan dinar is deter- mined on the basis of its relationship to a currency basket constituting the SDR, with the weights de- termined by their relative importance to Jordan's international transactions; and (2) a free market, in which the commercial banks are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates.1 The Central Bank intervenes in the free market from time to time by offering to sell foreign exchange to the commercial banks and financial institutions at a specified rate. On December 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$1.55039 = JD1 and US$1.53610 = JD1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies2 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the Central Bank for sales of ex- change for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institu- tions. Authorized dealers are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for specified commercial transac- tions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. The maturity of the contracts may be up to one year. Each authorized dealer's forward transac- tions are subject to quantitative limits. For corpora- tions or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward ex- change facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- 1 Effective February 17, 1990, the dual exchange rate system was unified. 2Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. Import pol- icy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Customs, Supply, and Agriculture. In addition, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones con- cerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except exports of agri- cultural products) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash. Bilateral trade agree- ments have been concluded with a number of coun- tries (Egypt, India, Romania, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey), and a bilateral trade and credit agreement is in effect with Iraq. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident ac- counts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, in- cluding Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency and be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in interna- tional markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency may be opened at the Central Bank by govern- mental and semigovernmental entities, as well as the specialized credit institutions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital na- tional interest (including those companies in which the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capital), provided that outstanding balances (in- cluding interest earnings) in each account do not 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JORDAN exceed JD1 million. This ceiling can be raised to JD 3 million in certain cases. Jordanian exporters are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with any commercial banks or financial institutions, to be credited with up to 30 percent of export proceeds. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 50,000. These accounts must be in the form of time deposits, and the terms must not be less than six months. If the account has been credited with currency notes, it may be debited only with currency permits; permits are not required if the account has been credited with transfers through the banking system or checks in foreign currency. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may open accounts in foreign currencies without limits for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 50,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items3 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Since November 1988 and through 1989, the follow- ing imports have also been prohibited: commercial vehicles, television sets, cameras, video recorders, nonmedical furniture, microwave ovens, tiles, glass, marble, sculptures and antiques, artificial flowers, and artificial fruits. All other imports, un- less covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import li- censes if their c. i. f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the c. i. f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also re- quire an exchange permit, which is granted auto- matically when an import license has been ob- tained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on ex- change permits for imports, except those made by 3These include carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and military uniforms. Certain of these com- modities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain agricultural commodities may be pro- hibited in good crop years. government departments and certain approved in- stitutions and individual permits of less than JD 300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior ap- proval by the Central Bank, which normally is given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Advance deposits are required against import let- ters of credit, as follows: (1) 30 percent for raw mate- rials and for basic foodstuffs and medicine that have no domestic substitute; (2) 70 percent for other goods; and (3) 60 percent for all imports into free zones. Imports to Free Zones With the discontinuation of central bank issu- ance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibil- ity to provide foreign currencies to finance such transactions. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require ex- change control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' de- pendents, reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad and expenses of Jordanian resi- dents traveling abroad; educational expenses and expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.4 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits for invisible payments except those of govern- ment departments and certain approved institu- tions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, and those with a value under JD 500. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign na- tionals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances by 4A11 insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign ex- change is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded before May 1965. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 265 postal order may be made for amounts not exceed- ing the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invis- ibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remit- tances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coins. Nonresidents working in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 monthly with a total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 annually. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jor- dan, in accordance with exchange permits autho- rized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other non- residents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain 30 percent of the proceeds in deposits at local com- mercial banks or financial institutions and use them to make payments for imports of inputs. Exempt from this requirement are the proceeds from ex- ports of agricultural products to other countries. Exporters of phosphates, fertilizers, and potash are required to surrender their foreign exchange re- ceipts directly to the Central Bank. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jorda- nian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person re- garded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally al- lowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance com- panies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be remitted, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in accordance with the guidelines of the Central Bank. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Central Bank. The Investment Committee may ap- prove more liberal provisions, and exchange per- mits are granted accordingly. The Foreign Com- panies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; matu- rity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transfer- able in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require an additional license from the Central Bank. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement 5Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. February 8. The exchange rate for the Jordanian dinar was fixed against the U.S. dollar at JD 0.540 = US$1, and moneychangers were closed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 JORDAN May 31. The exchange value of the Jordanian dinar was linked to a basket of currencies consti- tuting the SDR, with the weights determined by their relative importance in Jordan's international transactions. June 14. Commercial banks and financial institu- tions were required to conduct foreign exchange transactions at the rates published daily by the Cen- tral Bank of Jordan. July 31. A dual exchange rate system was intro- duced, under which commercial banks and finan- cial institutions were permitted to buy and sell for- eign exchange at freely determined rates. Commercial banks and financial institutions, how- ever, were required to sell foreign exchange for pur- poses of meeting demand for import payments and student expenses abroad at the rates quoted by the Central Bank of Jordan. rate announced by the Reuter monitor for similar deposits, but this rate is 0.5 percentage points below the Reuter monitor rate for deposit balances that are less than the required 35 percent. Fines are imposed at an annual rate of 10 percent on any shortfalls on the deposit balance. August 15. Jordanian exporters were permitted to maintain with any commercial banks or financial institutions foreign exchange accounts, to be cred- ited with up to 30 percent of export proceeds. August 27. Balances on time deposits of Jordanian residents in foreign currencies with terms of less than six months were allowed to be withdrawn be- fore maturity. If these deposits are credited with foreign currency notes, they may be debited only with currency permits, whereas if they are credited with transfers through the banking system or with checks in foreign currency, withdrawals are permit- ted without any restriction. Foreign Currency Accounts Imports and Import Payments May 31. Commercial banks were required to de- posit 35 percent of their foreign currency deposits with the Central Bank of Jordan. These deposits must be in the form of time deposits with terms of not less than one month or of customers' deposits in foreign banks abroad and must be denominated in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. The Central Bank of Jordan pays interest on the deposit balances at the October 4. Advance deposits were required for import letters of credit at the following rates: (1) 30 percent for raw materials and for basic foodstuffs and medicines that have no domestic substitute; (2) 70 percent for other goods; and (3) 60 percent for all imports into free zones. October 8. Imports into free zones were required to be settled in foreign exchange transfers from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies. The mid rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDK rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent below and above the rate thus determined. On De- cember 29, 1989, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 21.5685 and K Sh 21.6334, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies1 are determined on the basis of New York U.S. dollar closing rates for the currencies concerned. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark, for periods of up to three months for export receipts and up to six months for import payments, at pre- mia or discounts administratively set by the Central Bank. Forward cover is permitted for trade transac- tions only. The Central Bank deals with commercial banks up to six months forward for imports and up to three months forward for exports. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many pay- ments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submit- ted by the importer in Kenya before orders are placed abroad. Applications for the allocation of 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and Zambian kwacha. foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director to the Central Bank. The approval of ap- plications for imports is granted by the Import Man- agement Committee (IMC), and the Foreign Ex- change Allocation Committee (FEAC) approves the allocation of foreign exchange for each application and deals with policy issues on imports. Both of these committees are composed of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Planning, and Na- tional Development, and Commerce and Industry, and the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce also deals with export promotion and issues special licenses for the export of restricted goods such as maize and other food products. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control ap- proval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South Afri- can currency) and gold by nonresidents to autho- rized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are cred- ited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of spec- ified bonds issued by the Government or by local 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 KENYA authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The re- demption proceeds of these securities are transfer- able, and interest is freely transferable to nonresi- dents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South Africa are prohibited. For purposes of import licensing requirements, prod- ucts are classified into three schedules. Import li- censes are valid for three or six months, depending on product categories. All private sector imports require a license to receive an allocation of foreign exchange, and licenses are issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders can be placed. Schedule I consists of a list of mainly high-priority capital goods, raw materials, and intermediate in- puts. The approval of licenses for imports on this schedule is, in principle, virtually automatic. Li- censes are approved by the Director of Internal Trade, and foreign exchange is allocated by the Cen- tral Bank. Items on Schedule II are of relatively high priority and require ministerial or government ap- proval, in general relating to technical criteria, prior to the issuance of a license. The approval of licenses associated with Schedule II is, in principle, auto- matic once the technical criteria are met. Items on Schedule III are subdivided into three groups. Items on Schedule IIIA and IIIB, which include finished goods, are licensed virtually automatically (as for Schedule I). In March 1989, 98 items were shifted from Schedule IIIC to Schedule IIIB, and 278 items, from Schedule IIIB to Schedule IIIC. Sched- ule IIIC contains items that receive the lowest pri- ority, those that are either domestically manufac- tured or for which domestic substitutes are available. Some 93 percent of imports (in 1986/87 values) are now free of quantitative restrictions, and customs ta r i f fs are applied as the sole form of pro- tection for these goods. Applications for foreign exchange allocation li- censes for imports have, since 1987, been subject to a charge of 1.5 percent of the cost and freight value of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are per- mitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward equity capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. All imports with an f .o .b. value of more than K Sh 50,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive this Clean Report. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with com- panies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a full scholastic year3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evi- dence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) and have not been in the country for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 10,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover mainte- nance, educational expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not ex- ceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional sav- ings upon emigration within that period. Remit- tances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may re- mit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12- month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at 2Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 3Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit funds for educa- tional support to Kenyan citizens residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 269 least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the non- resident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as of September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. If income is derived from rent as well as from other sources, applications must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is re- quired for outward remittance of profits and divi- dends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 10,000 a person (K Sh 5,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every three years. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance, but to an allowance of K Sh 5,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for business travel to Tanzania and Uganda up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of 10 days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 2,500 a day for a maximum period of 20 days once every 2 years. A ha jj pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 25,000 for adults is available once only to persons who have not used the basic travel allowance since August 23, 1989. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any un- used balance of foreign currency notes they brought in. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on interna- tional flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 200 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control ap- proval. Applications for travel tickets must be ac- companied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, return- able only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require special licenses and may be subject to re- striction to ensure adequate supplies in the domes- tic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses other than exchange control approval. Effective October 1, 1988, coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may no longer be exported unless a sales contract is regis- tered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Hor- ticultural Crops Development Authority, respec- tively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be made in Kenya in an appropriate manner within three months of the date of export and sold to the Central Bank of Kenya. Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for export compensation for duties paid on imported inputs equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value. About 1,251 export items, other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyrethrum, horticultural products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods produced with raw material inputs not sub- ject to import duty, are covered by the export com- pensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on exportation of their currencies. The import of domestic bank notes is prohibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 200 that they had previously taken out. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. Transfers to South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in al- lowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in ap- proved securities, and redemption proceeds be- come transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not generally restricted, but to ensure eventual re- patriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 KENYA types of production requires approval. Foreign in- vestors may repatriate the value of the original eq- uity investment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Local borrow- ing by non-resident-owned or non-resident- controlled companies, as well as borrowing by resi- dents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in govern- ment securities. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not nor- mally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments June 16. The modification of items on Schedules IIIB and IIIC was announced; 98 items were shifted from IIIC to IIIB, and 278 items, from IIIB to IIIC. The quantitative restrictions on items on Schedule IIIB were also lifted. June 16. The number of customs tariff categories was reduced to 12 from 17, and the rates of 15 per- cent, 35 percent, 45 percent, 70 percent, and 120 percent were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds June 16. An additional 451 goods became eligible to receive export compensation. June 16. Export taxes were abolished on coffee and tea, and a presumptive tax of 5 percent was levied on gross sales of all agricultural produce. Payments for Invisibles August 16. The basic travel allowance for resident adults holding round-trip tickets was increased to K Sh 10,000 a person from K Sh 4,000 (and to K Sh 5,000 for children aged 3 to 12 years from K Sh 2,000), but the allowance would be granted once every 3 years instead of every 2 years. The daily business travel allowance was increased to K Sh 2,500 from K Sh 1,500 for a maximum of 20 days once every 2 years. Those engaged in export trade would be able to apply for the allowance more frequently than the normal 2-year limit. The al- lowance for emigrants was increased to K Sh 5,000 a person from K Sh 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- change. The Bank of Kiribati quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22, 1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies by residents in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer, of which the only one is the Bank of Kiribati. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohibited 1U.S. dollars, Fiji dollars, pounds sterling, New Zealand dol- lars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars, deutsche mark, Sin- gapore dollars, Canadian dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, Sol- omon Islands dollars, Swiss francs, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private imports, are imposed for revenue purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment. All applications for for- eign investment have to be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applica- tions where total foreign capital contribution to for- eign investments is less than $A 25,000. Applica- tions with higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Export-promoting or import- substituting investments are preferred. Under the Foreign'Investment Promotion Act, investors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to five years. Repatria- tion of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade-weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors are also taken into account when nec- essary.1 The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won (Bank of Korea base rate) in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were within ranges of 0.4 percent above and below the base rate (W 678.70), respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were determined in the same manner. The buying and selling rates for cer- tain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and op- tions between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward con- tracting in respect of interbank transactions. How- ever, the terms of forward contracts between a for- eign exchange bank and a nonbank customer must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 1, 1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with re- spect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the ex- effective March 2,1990, the multicurrency basket regime was replaced by a market average exchange rate system, under which the Korean won-U.S. dollar rate is determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. Interbank and customer rates are allowed to float freely within specified margins. change market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. The pro- ceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.2 Korean traders are permitted to enter into export and import contracts denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are to be made in designated foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for withdrawals of foreign means of pay- ment and purchases of other foreign means of pay- ment, or for payments relating to approved transac- tions. The sale of deposits for domestic means of payment has been restricted since March 28, 1988. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these ac- counts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Im- ports are divided into two categories: automatic ap- proval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import li- censes are automatically approved), unless they are 2In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the Fund that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 273 on a list of restricted items. As of the end of Decem- ber 1989, out of 10,241 basic items on the Harmo- nized System, 370 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irre- spective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, traders are required to export and/or import a mini- mum value of US$0.5 million for at least two calen- dar years. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. To limit increases in recently liberalized import items, ad- justment tariffs of up to 100 percent may be applied in addition to the basic tariff rates. Adjustment tar- iffs may be applied only to recently liberalized items; they are subject to review every six months, up to a maximum cumulative period of three years. On July 1,1987, a new Trade Act came into effect, which, among other things, introduced a system of safeguards against import surges that is more com- prehensive and less restrictive than the system of import surveillance lists and adjustment tariffs. Un- der the provisions of the Trade Act, a five-member Trade Commission was established on July 1,1987. The Trade Commission, which increased to six members at end-1989, decides if imports of foreign products have harmed domestic industries. If sub- stantial damage is ascertained, the Trade Commis- sion recommends the form of import relief to be provided. Possible measures include imposing quotas or other restrictions on the import category in terms of quantity, quality, or other relevant factors. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Payments for invisibles connected with for- eign trade and for certain other items, such as bank- ing charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance;3 addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. In addition, up to US$5,000 of foreign exchange may 3Those who are visiting countries whose currencies have ap- preciated significantly against the U.S. dollar can carry an addi- tional $2,500. be purchased by Korean residents without use of a passport. The monthly allowance for residents stay- ing abroad for over 60 days is US$3,000 (the al- lowance for Korean nationals working in an overseas branch of a firm is US$10,000). Credit card holders are allowed to charge all expenses that are directly associated with their travel without limit during business and official travel to foreign countries. In addition, they may carry US$10,000 for cash pay- ments. The basic monthly allowance for students living abroad is US$1,500 for each individual, and for students with a family, an additional allowance of US$500 for the spouse and US$300 for each child is granted. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to US$5,000 a transaction as living expenses to their parents and children living abroad, or as a gift to their relatives abroad for weddings or a donation for funerals. In addition, remittance by a resident of up to US$10,000 a transaction is permitted without ap- proval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Gov- ernor of the Bank of Korea grants approval for any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the coun- try, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conver- sion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individ- ual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must either be sur- rendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be depos- ited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. However, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000. The import by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. Nonresi- dents are prohibited from converting more than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 KOREA US$50,000 equivalent of foreign exchange into won without the approval of the Bank of Korea. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be depos- ited in foreign currency accounts, and the conver- sion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents require approval. Overseas invest- ments of less than US$2 million by Korean residents are authorized automatically if the documentary re- quirements are met; investments of less than US$5 million are not subject to government deliberation. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of expanding its overseas investment business or improving its fi- nancial status. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is limited to US$200,000 for current ex- penses and US$300,000 a household for investment purposes. Additional allowances for emigrant in- vestment abroad are subject to the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresi- dents are as follows. Foreign investment The Amended Foreign Capital Inducement Act (1983), which came into effect on July 1, 1984, provides that direct investment will be allowed in all industries, except those specified in a "negative" list; previously, direct investment was allowed only in industries belonging to a "positive" list. As of end-December 1989, the negative list comprised 209 out of a total of 999 industrial sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 79 percent. In the manufactur- ing industries, the negative list comprised 12 out of 522 sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 98 per- cent. The negative list distinguishes between "pro- hibited" and "restricted" sectors. The former are activities reserved exclusively for the Government or public entities, or those that may be injurious to public health or moral standards. Restricted ac- tivities are not, in general, open to foreign invest- ment, but specific projects may be approved on a case-by-case basis. Partnership with local firms is no longer required of foreign-invested companies. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that make a significant contribution to improving the balance of payments and to those accompanied by the transfer of advanced technology. As of July 1,1987, tax priv- ileges were reduced and after-investment controls were relaxed to treat foreign companies and local companies on the same basis. Automatic approval is granted to investments that satisfy the following requirements: (1) the value of the investment does not exceed US$3 million;4 (2) the share of the for- eigner is less than 50 percent; and (3) tax privileges do not apply. Investments in the following six man- ufacturing sectors are automatically approved irre- spective of their foreign capital equity ratio: diesel engines; excavators, loaders, bulldozers, cranes, and motograders; motor vehicles; silicon man- ganese, and silicon-manganese alloy steel; bleach- ing, dyeing, and textiles; transformers, circuit breakers, gas-insulated substations, and discon- necting switches for ultrahigh-voltage heavy elec- tric machinery. Acquisition of land by foreign- invested companies is subject to the approval of provincial and local governments. Investment ap- proval is normally granted within 30 days, and in the case of automatic approval, within 10 days. The overseas remittance of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor is freely permitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is freely permitted. Loans Authorization is required for foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing of more than US$1 million and with a maturity in excess of three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Regulations governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of De- cember 1989, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan Province of China (on ac- count of their geographical proximity), and to 60 days for imports originating in other countries.5 Subject to certain ceilings, foreign bank branches can enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. 4On January 1, 1990, the ceiling was increased to US$100 million. 5 On February 1,1990, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) for export raw materials was lengthened to 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 275 Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any approval or license. This means that certain com- memorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products, the main material of which is gold, re- quire the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domes- tically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement September 20. The telegraphic transfer rates were deregulated within the range of 0.4 percent margins above and below the base rate for the U.S. dollar and 0.8 percent margins above and below the base rate for other currencies. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The import surveillance list, which re- quired approval of the Korean Foreign Traders' As- sociation before an import license could be granted, was abolished. The system of emergency tariffs was abolished. Under the first phase of the Second Five- Year Tariff Reduction Program, the average tariff rate was reduced to 12.7 percent from 18.1 percent. March 14. Tariff quotas were established on 1,188 items under the ten-digit classification of the Har- monized System of Trade Classification and Coding System, lowering customs tariffs by an average of 3.7 percent for 974 consumer good items and by 4.3 percent for 214 other product items. July 1. Tariff quotas were established on 28 items, lowering their customs tariffs by an average of 7.3 percentage points; tariff quotas on 17 of the 28 items are to expire on June 30, 1990. The customs tariff rates on seven agricultural products (alfalfa, almonds, avocados, cherries, dried grapes, pistachios, and wood particleboard) were lowered by an average of 13.1 percent. Eighty-four product items, most of which are agricultural products, were liberalized in accordance with a three-year liberalization plan covering 1989-91. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange that may be brought into Korea without registration was reduced to US$3,000 from US$5,000, and the limit on conversion of foreign exchange into won by nonresidents was reduced to US$10,000 from US$20,000 a visit. December 1. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange that may be brought into Korea without registration was raised to US$5,000 from US$3,000, while the limit on conversion of foreign exchange into won by nonresidents was raised to US$50,000 from US$10,000 a visit. Capital February 13. Requirements on overseas invest- ment were liberalized. In addition to the abolition of the requirement concerning the credit standing of investors, the minimum equity investment ratio was lowered to 20 percent, and the minimum inter- est rate for long-term loans was removed. July 1. Nonresidents received permission to freely invest in six manufacturing sectors, regardless of their equity ratio, and the amount of new foreign investments permitted without reference to the capital review committee was increased to US$5 million from US$3 million. The six sectors comprise the manufacture of: diesel engines; excavators, loaders, bulldozers, cranes, and motograders; mo- tor vehicles; silicon manganese, and silicon- manganese alloy steel; bleaching, dyeing, and tex- tiles; transformers, circuit breakers, gas-insulated substations, and disconnecting switches for ultrahigh-voltage heavy electric machinery. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 32, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of currencies in Kuwait's trade and fi- nancial relations. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.29233 and KD 0.29243, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The most common arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors is handled through dealings in the international for- ward exchange markets. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.l General and individual import licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with the People's Republic of China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. aln addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruit and vegetables; li- censes, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machin- ery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for onetime use. Licenses are issued to regis- tered and licensed industrial establishments after the approval of the Industrial Development Com- mission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permit- ted under individual or specific licenses. Importa- tion of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork or foods tuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered im- porters. To be registered, the importer must be ei- ther a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emi- rates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. In August 1985, in line with a GCC resolution, Kuwait adopted a system of preferential tariffs al- lowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value- added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 per- cent, or 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the formula is 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 277 reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. In 1985 tariffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986 customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, com- mercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987 the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989 import tar iffs were imposed on air filters for automobiles (25 per- cent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); moreover, tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for government procure- ment of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are ac- corded a 5 percent price margin over goods pro- duced outside the GCC. In total, some 58 items receive tariff protection from the Government. The maximum duty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foodstuffs as well as some industrial establishments' imports of machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in com- panies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolution, to eliminate restrictions regard- ing non-Kuwaiti participation in retail trade enter- prises by GCC nationals as from March 1987. How- ever, import licensing restrictions for non-Kuwaitis were to remain in effect for GCC nationals. No re- strictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks in the official Kuwait Stock Ex- change are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries, but dealings are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar- denominated bonds in the Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1986,26 Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed, and foreigners were permitted to sell and buy these bonds in the Exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KUWAIT Changes During 1989 Prescription of Currency May 26. Kuwait and Morocco concluded a trade agreement (replacing the agreement of Novem- ber 1972). The agreement provided for a standardiz- ation of bilateral customs procedures, mutual in- vestment guarantees, and free repatriation of profits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the State Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public (the central bank). On December 29, 1989, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank was KN 710 = US$1 (buying) and KN 717 = US$1 (selling); these rates are used for all transactions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in rela- tion to the U.S. dollar. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL), which was a subsidiary of the central bank until it became independent on November 1,1989, handles all offi- cial foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also adminis- ters exchange controls. Import and export authori- zation is granted by the Ministry of Commerce to state trading companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign investors), cooperatives, and public enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trad- ing arrangements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. These are multiyear trading arrangements and are implemented through annual protocols that specify imports and exports in volume terms and shadow prices (expressed in rubles). Except for trading arrangements with Hungary and the U.S.S.R., all others are on a purely countertrade basis. If balances exist at the end of a given year, agreement must be reached with the partner coun- try to settle the balance during the first quarter of the following year. In principle, balances have to be Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. settled by means of trade transactions. In the agree- ment with Hungary, the same regulation applies if the countertrade deficit exceeds a certain line of credit granted by Hungary. Under the trading ar- rangement with the U.S.S.R., the import value of the Lao People's Democratic Republic may exceed its export value by 400 percent. Trade deficits, up to a maximum limit specified at the outset of the year under the agreement with the U.S.S.R., are con- verted into long-term loans at the end of each year. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has a bilat- eral payments arrangement with the German Dem- ocratic Republic, covering noncommercial transac- tions related to expenditures of this country's embassy in the Lao People's Democratic Republic and expenditures of the embassy of the Lao People's Democratic Republic in the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments Imports are conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, are required for all im- ports and are granted only to exporters. A national import-export plan is a key element of the trading system. This plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and takes into account the plans of individual enter- prises and the requests furnished by each ministry and the provincial governments. Payments for au- thorized imports are made by using retained export earnings, foreign exchange allocated by the BCEL, and foreign exchange obtained from the parallel market. The rates of margin deposits required against letters of credit are determined by the BCEL, on a case-by-case basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. Up to the equivalent of US$2,000 may be provided by the BCEL for travel purposes; for higher amounts, au- thorization by the Ministry of Commerce is re- quired. Persons holding foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL are permitted to withdraw foreign exchange up to US$2,000; larger amounts may be withdrawn upon authorization. In practice, there are no restrictions on remittances of profits earned by foreign investors. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade is conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. At present, the public sector has a mo- nopoly on the exportation of two strategic goods, namely, logs and minerals. Only the Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL), provincial trading com- panies, and specially authorized public enterprises can export these goods. All other goods can be freely exported by the private sector. Export quotas on logs (separately on high-quality logs and sawn timber) have been in effect since March 1989. Ex- ports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. In practice, export earnings are not required to be surrendered; they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL (to make payment for au- thorized imports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accru- ing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Although not yet officially approved, the Foreign Investment Law regulating inward foreign capital transfers, profit remittances, and the re- patriation of foreign investment capital is being ap- plied. This law imposes no restrictions on these transactions. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad except by authoriza- tion of the BCEL. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the exchange rate was adjusted in several stages, from KN 450 (buying) and KN 455 (selling) per US$1 on January 1, 1989 to KN 710 (buying) and KN 717 (selling) per US$1 on Decem- ber 29, 1989. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Exports of logs and timber were banned. March 5. Exports of logs and timber under the existing contracts were permitted. June 1. An export quota on high-quality logs was established at the level of 1988 exports. July 1. An export quota was established for sawn timber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 29, 1989, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 505.0 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The duties and taxes on goods and services on amounts invoiced or expressed in for- eign currencies are calculated from an exchange rate of US$1 = LL 6. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency. However, they are pro- hibited from engaging in forward transactions ex- ceeding LL 500,000 unless such transactions are re- lated to foreign trade. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac- tions with Poland, with which Lebanon has a bilat- eral payments agreement, may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) are ei- ther prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or during a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus fruits, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and pea- nuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agri- cultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and insulated elec- tric and telephone wires, and cables made of cop- per. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for im- ports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before issu- ing letters of credit. A prior deposit in a local cur- rency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit must be placed by im- porters with their banks; such deposits are not re- quired to be deposited by the banks with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 per thousand of the value of goods. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent, and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain im- ports from member countries of the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC) and Arab countries that are accorded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and al- coholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles are 40 percent for vehicles with values of up to LL 10,000; 90 percent for vehicles with values between LL 10,001 and LL 30,000; and 150 percent for vehicles with values exceeding LL 30,000. The rate of surcharge on watches and imitation jewelry is 7 percent. The rates of surcharge on alcoholic beverages are beer, LL 140 per 100 liters; cham- pagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whisky, 30 percent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 per- cent and a municipality tax plus an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 per liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whisky. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 LEBANON Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat deriva- tives to any country and all exports to the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be re- tained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from ex- tending to residents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from nonresident banks unless such transactions are for commercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are pro- hibited from receiving deposits, or opening ac- counts in Lebanese pounds, for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve require- ment; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to for- eign currency deposits and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain long or short net foreign currency posi- tions up to 15 percent of the amount of their capital. However, banks can hold long net foreign currency positions equal to the amount of increases in capital effected after June 1, 1985 and to the general re- serves established after end-1985. The amounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are not included in net foreign currency positions. Investments in non- resident banks and other foreign institutions are exempted from the net foreign currency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commer- cial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Also, nonresi- dents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compen- sation is paid on losses exceeding 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Mal- oti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 = R 1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 2.5500 and M 2.5510, respectively, per US$1. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. They undertake such operations through their correspondent banks abroad on rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the "financial rand" system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely de- termined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to fi- nance investments in new firms and certain properties. There are no forward cover arrange- ments for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an ex- change control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these three countries became effective on April 1,1986. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded except for statistical and customs purposes. In relation to countries out- side the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls exter- nal currency transactions. Authority to approve cer- tain types of current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade-licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Ex- cise after recommendation from the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions and insurance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from coun- tries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regula- tions; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. A wide range of imports from outside the customs union are subject to surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the for- eign exchange required to make payments for im- ports from outside the customs union. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is re- stricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region—Malawi, Mo- zambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 4,000 an adult and M 2,000 a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries out- side the CMA region is M 10,000 and M 5,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 8,000 a person at rates not exceeding M 600 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are M 15,000 and M 750, respectively. Higher allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treatment purposes. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 LESOTHO Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 100,000 a family or up to M 50,000 a person. The maximum amount of earnings on blocked assets emigrants are allowed to transfer through normal banking channels is M 300,000 a year. Any excess may be transferred only through financial rand. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct invest- ment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments that may be approved by CBL. The free transfer of in- come from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and profits from investments held in Lesotho is not restricted provided they were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 40,000, provided that the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1989 Capital August 10. Nonresidents were prohibited from purchasing farms and residential properties with the financial rand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. The currency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circu- lates along with Liberian coinage and the $5 note.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Withholding taxes and corporate income taxes of some exporters are required to be paid in U.S. dol- lars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions administered by the Ministry of Commerce. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied pe- troleum gas. A few items (arms and ammunition and explosives) require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. The Liberian National Petro- leum Company (LNPC) has the exclusive right to import petroleum. Licenses to import rice are is- sued to private distributors by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. A surtax of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f .o .b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory; wild animals; cement; agricultural prod- ucts other than rubber, flour, and sugar; and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent sur- render of export proceeds and taxation or, for agri- cultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood products for export must have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content has risen to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export proceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this foreign exchange. That portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not pur- chased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. aU.S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared from circulation. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist, and the U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transac- tions, and abnormally high commissions are charged by com- mercial banks for their sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, other than a limit of $1,000 a person on capital export in the form of cash. Under the Invest- ment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 LIBERIA may be granted a five-year, 90 percent duty exemp- tion on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per- cent exemption on distributable profits, and a pro- tective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a further two years in certain circumstances. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 17-August 18. The Liberian $5 note was is- sued in exchange for the $5 coin, which was with- drawn from circulation. Prescription of Currency November 21. Hotels were required to receive pay- ment in foreign exchange from foreign guests in settlement of their bills. November 21.lt was announced that, commencing in January 1990, foreign employers and exporters would be required to meet their payroll and other local expenses in foreign exchange through the Na- tional Bank of Liberia. Imports and Import Payments March 1. The Liberia National Petroleum Com- pany (LNPC), a parastatal corporation, was granted the monopoly right to import petroleum. November 21. Under the Economic Recovery Plan (ERP), duty-free privileges were suspended, pend- ing a review, and a wholesale tax of 5 percent on imported goods was introduced. Although the external customs tariffs were sus- pended at the same time, this decision was reversed soon after, and the customs tariffs continued to be collected. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (the Jamahiriya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 = SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around this fixed relation- ship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 = SDR 2.60465. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 17 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates vis-a-vis the SDR, as com- municated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, as of December 31, 1989 was LD 0.292148 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward com- mitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have resulted in a deviation between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, but payments for Libyan oil exports are not accepted in U.S. dollars. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permit- ted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earn- ings of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors un- dertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept with an authorized bank. Payments re- ceived by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the pre- scribed evidence, but, in general, remittance is per- mitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked ac- counts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Jamahiriya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain excep- tions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports included in the annual 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Commodity Budget are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises without license. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the annual Commodity Budget are subject to licensing. Resident and nonresident firms undertaking development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual Commodity Budget and not available locally. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of Jan- uary 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the excep- tion of strategic goods3 retained by public corpora- tions, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provisions of the annual Commodity Budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits re- quire central bank approval. Exchange permits re- quired for imports are readily granted by the autho- rized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Economy and Foreign Trade and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs decla- ration confirming clearance and stating the valua- tion. The approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 per- cent of the applicable customs duty. All Tunisian products and certain Moroccan products are ex- empt from duties. 2These include mineral water, fruit juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, fresh fruit, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and furs. 3These are nine essential food items, medicine, milk, meat, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. Payments for Invisibles Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits spec- ified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and board at worksites in remote areas will be made available free of charge by the employer in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations; (2) non- residents employed by the Libyan private sector may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries, provided that the monthly net remittance does not exceed LD 40 for agricultural and unskilled workers, and LD 60 for technical workers. In general, non- residents may not transfer income derived from overtime work. In addition to limits on transfers, there is an upper limit of LD 400 on the value of goods that nonresidents going abroad permanently can take out; the value in excess of this allowance is deducted from the transferable portion of earnings. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regula- tions. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and techni- cians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, in- cluding tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Additional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are en- titled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and de- clared to customs. Travelers from the Jamahiriya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 289 Export proceeds must be received through an au- thorized bank within six months of shipment. Ex- ports of nonmonetary gold (other than for process- ing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized com- modities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Export Promo- tion Council established under Decision No. 523 of September 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing information on demand con- ditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, as an incentive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used for financing of own imports. Export licenses are not required for these exports, but exporters are required to register with the Council and to supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un- limited amounts; these must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of US$50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per- cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described above in the section under Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the sur- plus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized to varying degrees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan inter- ests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya only by Libyans. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permis- sion from the Secretariat of the General People's Committee for the Economy and Foreign Trade to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 5. Decree No. 248 was promulgated, un- der which imports of all goods other than strategic goods (i.e., essential food items, medicine, milk, meat, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) were permitted by private companies and partnerships. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagascar adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies,1 which it quotes. The autho- rized banks are not permitted to maintain an ex- change position in any foreign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 29, 1989, the midpoint rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagascar was FMG 1,532.54 = US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward in- vestments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the extensive use of the Liberalized Imports System (SILI) for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all economic agents are allowed to import and re- ceive the total amount of foreign exchange re- quested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports, which currently includes 38 customs nomenclatures, is subject to administrative control, mainly for security and health reasons. Since Sep- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. tember 1, 1988, private operators and state trading companies are authorized to export, with the excep- tion of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negoti- ated by exporters and importers. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Blocked Account, bal- ances in which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Transactions between enterprises in the Free Trade Zone and residents are conducted through the en- terprises' Foreign Accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks, which are required to transfer to the Central Bank foreign exchange credited by the enterprises to their For- eign Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Under the SILI, which was introduced in Feb- ruary 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1, 1988, all economic agents that are listed in the Trade Register and in good standing legally and with the tax administration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the pre- vailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not re- quired for imports financed with foreign exchange that has been surrendered to the CBM, and all ad- ministrative formalities are handled by the banks 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 291 through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to finance im- ports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abol- ished on May 10,1988, and each commercial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision, on the basis of its financial evaluation of imports. In accordance with Notice (Avis) No. 10- MC/DGCE of January 2,1988, amended by Revision No. 123-MC/DGCE of April 26, 1989, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except for 38 items in the customs nomenclature, mainly for health and security reasons. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a sim- plified 16 rates (multiples of 5), the minimum rate of 5 percent, the maximum rate of 80 percent, and a temporary surcharge of 30 percent on certain prod- ucts aimed at facilitating the transition. All imports except those that were simplified in accordance with international treaties were made subject to a minimum rate of 5 percent, on a collection basis. As a result, the tariffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1,1989, the minimum tariff rate was raised to 10 percent, except for certain products, namely, fertilizers, pesticides, phar- maceutical products and inputs, and optical glass. In addition, the Government reduced certain tariffs and the temporary surcharge, which was lowered to 10 percent from 30 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Budget, which has delegated approval authority to the Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase for- eign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 180,000 a person a year (FMG 90,000 for children under 10 years). Any foreign exchange re- maining after return to Madagascar must be surren- dered. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is the equivalent of US$100 a person a day, subject to a maximum of US$1,500 a trip and a limit of two trips a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Ap- plications for additional amounts and applications for exchange for any other type of travel must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Applications for additional foreign exchange may be approved for bona fide business trips and for medi- cal treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Alloca- tions for different types of travel may not be com- bined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. Transfers of dividends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality are fully liberalized under the terms of the Invest- ment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone when they are distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 percent in other cases. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a for- eigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons whose families are in Madagascar, and up to 60 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar (100 per- cent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 600,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds On September 1, 1988, a new export law was enacted, whereby all exporters listed in the Trade Register in good standing and having no tax obliga- tions in arrears can freely export their products, except vanilla, at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Furthermore, the require- ment of quality control or certification of exportable goods by the Government has been abolished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Certificates of quality have also been abolished on exports of cloves. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certifi- cate from the competent government agency or a specialized private company that is internationally recognized, at the option of the exporter. For vanilla ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 MADAGASCAR and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For sea- food and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarkation in the absence of an arrangement di- rectly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in conformity with international agreements. For the 1988/89 crop year, all coffee producers were permitted to freely negotiate and execute ex- port contracts. Apart from Madagascar's interna- tional commitments under the International Coffee Organization, there was no prior authorization re- quirement or other administrative restriction on cof- fee exports by economic agents. During this period, a reference price, established by the National Coffee Trading Certificate on the basis of international data and updated weekly, was used as the basis for cal- culating taxes on exports and for determining the amount of foreign exchange to be repatriated. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemption is granted by the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Export proceeds of enterprises operating in the Free Trade Zone must be repatriated within a maximum of 190 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income or pro- ceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresi- dents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denomi- nated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and for- eign countries and between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to prior authorization by the Min- istry of Finance and Budget. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward di- rect investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar2 and the corresponding transfers require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Budget (the Director- ate of the Treasury). Direct foreign investments abroad by Malagasy nationals3 are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Bud- get. The total or partial liquidation of such invest- ments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Mada- gascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company. Proceeds from liquidation of foreign in- vestment may be repatriated with the prior authori- zation of the Ministry of Finance and Budget. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au- thorization by the Minister of Finance and Budget. Exempt from authorization are operations in con- nection with shares similar to securities whose is- sue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Budget, although loans contracted by autho- rized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the Free Trade Zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization pay- ments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Budget. In accordance with the Investment Code of De- cember 29,1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises bene- fiting from preferential treatment under the Code are granted an exemption from import taxes exceed- ing 10 percent on materials used in the production process. Enterprises operating in the Industrial Free Trade Zone established on December 29,1989, may import these materials free of duty and tax. Gold The purchase of gold in the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights is carried out by "ap- proved collectors" acting in their own name and on their own account. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Indus- including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 293 try and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Cen- tral Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. The holder of a valid gold-mining title, or the holder of a gold- washing permit or rights is free to sell the gold he has recovered to any approved collector of his choice. However, Malagasy nationals, represented by the Central Bank of Madagascar or its agents, may exercise their right of pre-emption with regard to the purchase of gold produced in the country. Changes During 1989 Nonresident Accounts December 29. Enterprises operating in the Free Trade Zone were permitted to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with local banks. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The minimum rate of import tax on all goods, except for fertilizers, pesticides, phar- maceutical goods and inputs, and optical glasses was increased to 10 percent from 5 percent. The temporary surcharge on all imports, except for meats and edible organs, for which the surcharge was suspended, was reduced to 10 percent from 30 percent. April 26. The number of products, the importa- tion of which is prohibited or requires prior authori- zation, was reduced to 77. Payments for Invisibles December 29. The transfer of dividends and profits to nonresident shareholders was unrestricted under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds December 29. Export proceeds of enterprises oper- ating in the Industrial Free Trade Zone were permit- ted to be repatriated within a maximum period of 190 days, instead of the normal period of 90 days, from the date of shipment. Capital December 29. Enterprises operating in the Indus- trial Free Trade Zone were permitted to borrow abroad on their sole responsibility. Gold May 31. The price of gold was decontrolled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geographical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign ex- change transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) is determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On December 29, 1989, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 2.6652 and MK 2.6925, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound ster- ling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the International Monetary Fund. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism (MTIT), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Ma- lawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Ma- lawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 294 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident ac- counts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he or she is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. Nor- mally, authorization is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved man- ner. On application to the exchange control au- thorities, the interest on Blocked Account balances is normally transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general li- censing system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTIT. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application, and are normally valid for a period of six months. To obtain foreign exchange for imports, private sector importers must file with a commercial bank an application for an import order, accompanied by pro forma invoices, including, where necessary, a specific import license. Commercial banks are au- thorized to approve, without reference to the RBM, 2Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 295 import order applications for "liberalized" items. Liberalized imports include most petroleum prod- ucts, all raw materials, industrial spare parts, some intermediate goods, and spare parts for commercial vehicles.3 In the case of restricted (not liberalized) imports, import order applications filed with com- mercial banks must be approved by the Exchange Control Department of the RDM. The RBM allocates foreign exchange for restricted imports according to the guidelines that give priority to items deemed to be "essential," e.g., basic foodstuffs. When imports arrive in the country and pay- ments are due, the importer must submit applica- tions for foreign currency payments. Such applica- tions must be accompanied by relevant customs documents. Commercial banks may require coun- terpart deposits depending on means of payment (e.g., letter of credit). This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations; approval of the RBM is required in the case of for- eign exchange applications for payment of restricted imports. It normally takes about one month to com- plete the administrative procedures for import payments. Prepayment for imports is allowed, with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Im- porters are free to choose any method of payment, subject to the prior approval of the RBM. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropri- ate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 per- cent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value including customs tariffs.4 The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 to 100 percent for luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without reference to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, e.g., private travel, edu- cation, medical treatment, and family maintenance. The basic exchange allowances for private travel are: MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year; MK 200 a year for children up to 10 years of age; and MK 300 a year for children between the ages of 10 and 18 years. Annual travel allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for an allowance during the preceding three years. Al- lowances are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 400 a trip for any number of trips in a year. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi cur- rency and £10 or US$15 in bank notes, or the equiv- alent of £10 or US$15 in any other convertible for- eign currency notes, in addition to their basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange for payments for most other invisibles (or for amounts exceeding standard basic allowances such as those mentioned above) requires the prior approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the RBM. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary em- ployment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities5 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be surrendered no later than five working days after payment has been made to the exporter's account in a foreign bank. Minor specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.6 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tariffs paid on imports of certain inputs used by manufac- tured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad 3 A few consumer goods, including infant formula, toothpaste, soap, and razor blades have also been liberalized. 4The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufactured goods. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic en- ergy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 6The cess on tobacco is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 MALAWI by residents requires prior exchange control ap- proval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign se- curities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to non-resident- controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Departing persons over 50 years of age, whether single or married, are allowed exchange equivalent up to MK 15,000. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max- imum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried persons under the age of 50 years are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of the departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emi- gration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments August 14. The liberalization of foreign exchange controls was extended to the remaining 25 percent of raw materials, industrial spare parts, and inter- mediate goods, including most goods related to commercial transport and some consumer goods (including infant formula, toothpaste, soap, and razor blades). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The ex- ternal value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia inter- venes only to moderate volatile daily fluctuations in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 29,1989, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was M$2.6990 = US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than Israeli and South African currencies, to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than Israeli and South African currencies, and are free to determine the rates. For- ward exchange contracts may be in respect of both commercial or financial transactions. Forward cover for the commercial banks is provided usually for up to three months for purchases and sales at market rates. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the au- thority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import con- trol rests with the Royal Customs and Excise De- partment of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of import licensing throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterin- ary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained ac- cording to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in any foreign currency except currencies of Israel and South Africa or in ringgit from an Exter- nal Account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as External Ac- counts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for what- ever purpose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$10,000. The proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$10,000, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks. Balances in External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli Accounts and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, import licenses are required for certain imports as specified in Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries. These restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 MALAYSIA Imports of motor vehicles are subject to an import license with quantitative restrictions (quota). Move- ments of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement per- mits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion thereof from all countries require an import license. Imports of pri- mates require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued up to M$10,000 from any country other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. Pay- ments in excess of M$10,000 require completion of forms and approval by any authorized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufactur- ing sector are eligible for preferential duty treat- ment as follows: (1) raw materials for the production of goods for the domestic market that are not man- ufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs duty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market can be further exempted from this 3 percent customs duty if they comply with the New Economic Policy in terms of equity participation, management, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of goods can be imported and acquired free from sales tax; (4) in the case of companies manufacturing products for the export market, full exemption from customs duty is granted when local materials are competitive in price and quality; (5) all customs duties and sales tax on imported machinery and equipment that are unavailable locally and are used in the manufactur- ing process can be considered for exemption; and (6) customs duties and sales tax drawback can be claimed by any manufacturer on imported raw ma- terials or components that are incorporated in the finished products and exported within 12 months of the date upon which the customs duty or sales tax was paid. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without re- striction after exchange control requirements have been met. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, royal- ties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of ex- change control forms for amounts in excess of M$10,000. There is no restriction on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. Exports of sawlogs more than 40 centime- ters in diameter from Peninsular Malaysia are pro- hibited. For sawlogs of 40 centimeters in diameter or less, only those species other than the 27 banned species are allowed to be exported. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Ex- change control forms have to be completed for ex- ports valued at more than M$20,000 f.o.b. a ship- ment (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than M$100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payments spec- ified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, in any foreign currency except the curren- cies of Israel and South Africa, or in ringgit from an External Account. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Mal- aysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in whatever form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the sec- ond schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Ex- ports) Order, 1988, of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to licensing. Export incentives are provided to companies ex- porting Malaysian products. The main incentives include abatement of adjusted income for manufac- tured exports, an export allowance for agricultural products, double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit financing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limita- tion is imposed on the import of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines is- sued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC). The guidelines stipulate that the following inward investments require the approval of the FIC: (1) any proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 299 assets by foreign interests; (2) any proposed acquisi- tion of assets or any interests, mergers, and take- overs of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will result in ownership or control passing to foreign interests; (3) any proposed ac- quisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associ- ated group or by foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malay- sian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) any merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding M$5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign interest does not require the approval of the FIC. However, any increase in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involves subscription by any foreign interest requires the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (1) the total price of new interest subscribed by any foreign interest ex- ceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (2) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign interest increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant com- pany; (3) the total of the new interest subscribed by several foreign interests increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (4) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign interests increases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company. An increase in paid-up capital as in (2) above would also include any Malaysian company that increases its paid-up capital to more than M$5 million upon incorporation and in which either the holding of any foreign interest constitutes more than 15 percent of its voting power or the joint holding of several for- eign interests constitutes 30 percent or more of its voting power. Foreign investors are permitted to hold equity of up to 100 percent if the company exports 80 percent or more of its production, whether or not the com- pany's products compete with products currently being manufactured locally for the domestic mar- ket. These guidelines, however, do not apply to new investment in the press working/stamping industry or to investment in plastic components for the elec- tric and electronics industry. Foreign equity par- ticipation in the press working/stamping industry is restricted to a minimum of 60 percent if the com- pany does not export directly. However, if the com- pany exports 100 percent of its products (excluding FTZ/LMW), foreign investors can hold up to 100 percent of the equity. For the plastic compo- nents industry, foreign equity of up to 60 percent is allowed if the project exports 80 percent or more. For projects that involve the extraction or exploita- tion of nonrenewable resources, majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permit- ted. To determine the percentage for these projects, criteria such as level of investment, technology, risk involved, availability of Malaysian expertise in the area of exploration, the degree of integration, and level of value added involved are taken into consideration. Foreign investors are allowed to hold equity of up to 100 percent for a period of five years from the date of production in manufacturing and agricultural projects where local participation cannot be found, subject to the following conditions: (1) the company must export at least 20 percent of its production; (2) foreign investors must negotiate with the Minis- try of Trade and Industry if they cannot find local partners; and (3) for agricultural projects, the ap- proval of the State Government with regard to land ownership is required. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date of operation. After five years, the foreign equity ownership distribution will be subject to the same guidelines as those that apply to the manufacturing sector. Foreign investors whose applications are received during the period of October 1, 1986-December 31, 1990 are also permitted to hold up to 100 percent equity if the company exports 50 percent or more of its production or employs 350 full-time Malaysian workers and the products do not compete with products currently being manufactured locally for the domestic market. Export sales are defined to include sales to free-trade zones and licensed man- ufacturing warehouses. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of ex- change control forms for amounts above M$10,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by non-residents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$10 million without exchange control approval, pro- vided that total credit facilities obtained by the bor- rower in Malaysia do not exceed M$10 million, and that at least 60 percent of the borrower's total do- mestic credit facilities are obtained from commercial banks and other financial institutions incorporated in Malaysia. However, for financing the purchase of immovable property in Malaysia, nonresidents and non-resident-controlled companies are permitted to obtain domestic borrowing not exceeding 50 per- cent of the purchase consideration; such borrowing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 MALAYSIA must be repaid within a period of three years. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and South Africa, provided that they have not ob- tained any domestic credit. If an investor has any domestic credit, such investments require prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance invest- ments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of produc- tive capacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permitted to have a short or a long foreign exchange position, ranging from M$10 million to M$100 mil- lion, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Borrowing in foreign currencies from nonresi- dents may be made freely for loans of M$l million or less, provided that the total outstanding amount owed by the borrower to nonresidents, including undrawn facilities, does not exceed the equivalent of M$l million; beyond that amount, permission must be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan pro- ceeds would be used. However, loans in foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of M$200,000 and up to the equivalent of M$l million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. For- eign borrowing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, and such approval is normally not granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided these payments are in accordance with the approved terms and con- ditions of the loans. Commercial banks and mer- chant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign cur- rency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign cur- rency by banks in Malaysia must be for business and productive purposes in Malaysia, including (but not exclusively) payment for the import of goods and services, payment of interest or repay- ment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payment for the purchase from nonresidents of im- movable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares. In addition, for the purchase of property or shares (1) the FIC must give its approval; (2) the amount borrowed must not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million; and (3) repayment of principal cannot be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from resi- dents. The approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempted from payment of the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the export of Malaysian goods and proceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies outside Malaysia, provided monthly returns are submitted to the Controller. In addition, companies located in free-trade zones, or those that are licensed man- ufacturing warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be allowed to offset their export proceeds through intercom- pany accounts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are freely permitted to deal (i.e., purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in whatever state or form with any person except residents of Israel and South Africa. Changes During 1989 Exports and Export Proceeds September 2. The ban was announced on exports of all categories of rattan from Peninsular Malaysia, to take effect on December 1, 1989. September 4. The imposition of an export levy on selected species of sawn timber from Peninsular Malaysia was announced, to take effect on March 1, 1990. Capital March 21. Domestic credit facilities for financing the purchase of immovable property in Malaysia by nonresidents and non-resident-controlled com- panies were permitted for up to 50 percent of the purchase consideration; such borrowing was re- quired to be repaid within three years. December 5. The limit on new foreign capital equity participation in firms manufacturing impressed/imprinted products was reduced to 60 percent from 100 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Mone- tary Authority (MMA) has followed a floating ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply condi- tions in the market, although the MMA may inter- vene in the market when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1989 was Rf 9.2050 = US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since March 1, 1987, all tourism bills must be settled in foreign currency. There are no restrictions on maintaining balances in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar), medicines, and avia- tion fuel are mainly imported by the State Trading Organization. Effective January 1, 1989, all quan- titative import restrictions were abolished, and goods may be imported under an Open General License system (OGL). Licenses are issued auto- matically, and they are used for customs clearance purposes. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c .i .f. value of imports. Medicines and text- books are duty free as are some items imported for personal use. Duty rates on daily necessities and essentials range from 5 percent to 30 percent, and those on luxuries and items that are not essential for economic development range from 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency without any restrictions. Tourist resorts, hotels, and guest houses must pay their taxes and rent in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of canned and frozen tuna. Exports of black coral and tortoise shells are prohibited, except in the form of a prod- uct. An export duty is levied on ambergris exported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldivian jointly with a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of duti- able goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, within the time period specified in the license. The Government may require the exporters of nonduti- able exports to import specified goods in value not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods ex- ported. However, this requirement has not been applied to date. The Government earns royalty on the export of fish caught outside the 75-mile zone from the shore line. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Trav- elers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires ap- proval. All foreign investors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment either in the form of cash or in capital goods financed from 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 MALDIVES outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted freely. Exemption from duty and tax other than tourism tax may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. All quantitative import restrictions were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds December 10. The private sector was allowed to export most items, with the exception of canned and frozen tuna. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies concerned. The BCEAO levies commissions of 0.1 per mill and 2.5 per mill, respectively, on transfers to or from nonmembers of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). The banks levy a separate commission on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the WAMU, all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign ex- change transfers are subject to a stamp tax. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effected through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of im- port payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or guaran- teed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters, but certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Operations under the bilateral payments agreements2 are handled by JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Mali maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Hungary, Morocco, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Only those agreements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are operative. the Development Bank of Mali. Permits for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by foreign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs opened by these correspondents with an autho- rized bank in Mali. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited without prior authorization with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 established three categories of imports: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certifi- cate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Regime B); and 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MALI (3) imports subject to special prohibitions for rea- sons of security, public health, etc. (Regime C). Im- ports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) were sub- ject to Regime A; some products from EC (European Communities) countries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities, were also included in Re- gime A. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, were subject to quotas under Regime B, as were all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, grants, foreign investment, or development loans, were admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing re- quirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel and South Africa, which are prohibited, are required only to be registered, and permits are issued automatically. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual ex- change allocation equivalent to CEAF 250,000 a per- son (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which may be used on several occasions during the year; any unused foreign exchange must be surren- dered to an authorized intermediary within eight days of the traveler's return to Mali. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 a trip.3 Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. 3Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a cer- tificate or registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 305 Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, although the De- velopment Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under the Investment Code of January 24, 1986, the Government may grant special privileged sta- tus, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferen- tial treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial im- ports and exports of gold do not require authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The importation of cement was liberalized. June 15. Administrative procedures for import (and export) transactions were simplified exten- sively. All import-licensing requirements and quan- titative restrictions on imports were abolished and replaced with a registration system. A "one-step window" (guichet unique) was established for the execution of all administrative formalities for im- porting (and exporting). The customs tariff regime was also revised. Nearly all administrative values (valeurs mercuriales) were abolished, and the tariffs would henceforth be assessed on the basis of the actual value of imports (valeurs bar ernes). September 15. Imports valued at more than French francs 30,000 were subject to inspection by interna- tional agencies with regard to price, quality, quan- tity, and tariff classification. Exports and Export Proceeds June 15. All export-licensing requirements were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira. The exchange value of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Mal- tese lira and a transactions-weighted basket of cur- rencies1 representing Malta's important trading partners. The daily exchange rate between the Mal- tese lira and the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is derived by adding up the latest dollar values of the currency components of the Maltese lira basket; the midday quotations in Hong Kong are normally used in the computations. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 per- cent is applied on the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and for the various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank. On December 29, 1989, the buying and sell- ing rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar in such dealings were US$2.9830 and US$2.9456, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other cur- rencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling was Tm stg. 1.8522 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, and Swiss francs as well as the currencies in the basket, including ECUs. Any forward contract concluded between a bank and a customer must be accom- panied by a similar contract between the bank and the Central Bank. The forward facilities offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are in- tended to provide cover for firm contractual com- mitments for current transactions—that is, pay- ments and receipts pertaining to merchandise trade 1 At the end of December 1989, the currency basket consisted of the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the European Currency Unit (ECU). 306 and other invisible transactions. Capital transac- tions are excluded. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange risk entailed in its forward contracts with the commercial banks. The Central Bank also provides forward cover directly to government de- partments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. The Central Bank of Malta temporarily offers a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling to operators of tours from the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry for Development of the Tertiary Sector. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks. They may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities for any pur- pose, for the account of both residents and nonresi- dents. In the latter case, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri or foreign currency or foreign securities for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri held in an External Account or in any foreign currency. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are maintained with a number of countries.3 Outstand- ing balances under these agreements are settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident ac- counts in Maltese liri, designated External Ac- counts. These accounts may be credited freely with 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 3As of December 31, 1989, Malta maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Poland, and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 307 authorized payments to nonresidents, with trans- fers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and main- tain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with trans- fers from another foreign currency account belong- ing to a nonresident, and with interest payable on Foreign Currency Accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain Foreign Currency Ac- counts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports into Malta are classified into two categories—those that do not require a license and those that require a license. For the former, an Open General License (OGL) is applied. In the case of the latter, licenses are required basically for those items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as wheat, flour, cakes and pastries, gold and silver filigree, furniture, and lace. Protective import restrictions have been either re- moved or replaced by import levies. Imports of tinned milk, butter, tea, sugar, salt, edible oil, cer- tain meat, certain fruit, wheat, barley, maize, and cement are still subject to state trading, but most of these will be liberalized during 1990. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and the related import license, where applicable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep Foreign Currency Ac- counts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. thority for most types of payment has been dele- gated to authorized banks. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance of Lm 1,000. In the case of trips of five days or less (including persons traveling abroad and returning within the same day), the allowance is set at a max- imum of Lm 50 a day. In the case of trips of six days or more, the allowance cannot exceed Lm 600 a trip. Persons who do not use any of their travel allowance during a calendar year are allowed to transfer Lm 300 to the following year, and this amount can be used only if the traveler avails himself of this amount in addition to the full allowance of Lm 600 (i.e., a maximum of Lm 900) during the first trip of the year and if the trip is at least six days in duration. On returning to Malta, travelers must surrender any unused portion of the travel allowance, includ- ing the special extra allowance of Lm 300. Business travelers are allowed an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to Lm 100 a person a day, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip. Frequent business travelers may obtain a blanket six-month authorization with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon exhaustion of the funds authorized. Expenses defrayed in advance in Malta or by credit cards in connection with overseas trips (mainly hotel accom- modation and travel) are not counted as part of the foreign exchange allowance. Requests beyond the specified limits require the exceptional considera- tion of the Central Bank. The allowance for educa- tional expenses abroad is the equivalent of Lm 5,000 a person for an academic year.4 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Maltese currency may be contracted only with insurance companies that are duly li- censed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of de- pendents abroad are allowed on application show- ing evidence of hardship. Up to Lm 25 in Maltese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities, but approval au- 4For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 MALTA Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to EC (European Communities) countries, Norway, and Sweden are subject to license or certificate for administrative purposes. The proceeds of exports must be received within six months of shipment and be surrendered within a reasonable period thereafter. Under an Export Stabilization Scheme that remained in effect until the end of 1989, export- ers received a subsidy calculated on the basis of the appreciation of the Maltese lira against the currency in which the invoice was expressed and the value added by the export firm.5 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but, without the authorization of the Minister of Finance, importa- tion of any notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, al- though receipts in foreign currencies must be of- fered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by resi- dents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresi- dents are considered on their merits. The Immov- able Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, pro- hibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,6 with the exception of cer- tain special cases related mainly to economic de- velopment. Applications for the acquisition of prop- erty for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favor- able consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange con- trol approval. 5This scheme, which was introduced in 1986 as a temporary measure, was abolished, effective January 1, 1990. 6For the purposes of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta but excluding Maltese citizens living abroad or foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (c) 25 per- cent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresi- dent person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta are normally allowed to transfer all their as- sets to their new country of residence. Maltese na- tionals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 15,000 for each family; any excess amount is normally released over a period of three years in three equal installments after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and to acquire jewelry, but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The import of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufac- tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion only to supply jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 1. The Central Bank of Malta revised the composition and weights of the currency basket that is used to determine the exchange rate of the Mal- tese lira. The revision entailed reducing the number of currencies from ten to three (the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the European Currency Unit (ECU)), and updating the trade weights to reflect 1986-88 data. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Central Bank of Malta introduced new arrangements to facilitate payment procedures for the importation of goods. July 29. The import licensing system was liber- alized. The number of items for which an import license is required was reduced, and the quota- based import regime was replaced by a tariff-based system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is de- termined on the basis of a basket of currencies com- prising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' rela- tive importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are used for determining the ouguiya's daily ex- change rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 17 other currencies,1 including the curren- cies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. On December 29,1989, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 83.55 = US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied in re- spect of purchase and sale transactions through commercial bank accounts, and commissions of 1.75 percent are applied in respect of purchase and sale transactions involving traveler's checks and for- eign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A quarterly average exchange rate is applied for foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Admin- istration. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sectors. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that have been approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any informa- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian rials, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Admin- istration. All imports require exchange control ap- proval by the Central Bank. Special regimes apply to imports by government entities and state enterprises. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: Convertible Ouguiya Accounts and Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts. Convertible Ouguiya Accounts may be credited only with transfers from other Convertible Ouguiya Accounts, with 15 per- cent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and with 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from exports by qualifying enterprises. These ac- counts may be debited in foreign currency only for expenses relating to exporters' production ac- tivities. Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency and transfers from other Convert- ible Foreign Currency Accounts; they may be deb- ited for any payment without central bank ap- proval, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special au- thorizations from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in import transactions. Prepay- ment of the minimum turnover tax in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over im- ports of sugar, rice, and green tea. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MAURITANIA Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except'in the case of imports di- rectly financed from abroad. After the foreign ex- change transaction has been approved by the Cen- tral Bank, the importer is entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the pay- ment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company (SMAR). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other destinations; annual limits range from UM 100,000 to UM 800,000, depending on the applicant's business turnover. Bona fide re- quests for higher amounts for travel may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel alloca- tions must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may trans- fer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Ex- porters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be more than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company (SNIM), and exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company (SMCP). A special exemption applies to the repatriation of export proceeds of SNIM. Certain enterprises are allowed to retain 25 percent of export proceeds on foreign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Is- rael and between Mauritania and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauri- tania and all foreign countries are subject to ex- change control; capital transfers to all countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days from receipt of the declara- tion. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each op- eration. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 311 the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior au- thorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing from such investments can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments May 17. The import-licensing requirements were abolished, and the requirements for obtaining an exporter-importer card were liberalized. Special import regimes for government entities and state enterprises were introduced. A system of special import authorizations for those not holding exporter-importer cards was introduced. Exports and Export Proceeds January 23. Certain enterprises were allowed to retain 25 percent of export proceeds on foreign ex- change accounts maintained at domestic banks. Capital January 23. A new investment code, providing for various benefits and guaranteeing transfers of divi- dends profits, came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Mauritius' major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (central bank) with asymmetrical margins, amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange trans- actions in French francs, using rates obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 24.1357 and Mau Rs 24.2264, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 14.9772 and Mau Rs 15.0335, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 2.5889 and Mau Rs 2.6003, respec- tively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in the French franc, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dol- lar at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. Spreads allowed be- tween buying and selling rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in the pound ster- ling, 1.25 percent for the U.S. dollar, 1.6 percent for the French franc, 2.25 percent for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, and 2.375 percent for the deut- sche mark. Commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. A transfer tax of 15 percent is applied to autho- rized outward transfers of capital (other than bank- ing funds and repatriation of approved foreign in- vestments), and a stamp duty of 15 percent applies, under certain conditions, to purchases of gold coins and gold bullion. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling, French francs, and U.S. dollars are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for forward JThe exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a uniform margin of 3 percent a year. In addition, companies operating in the EPZ and other Mauri- tian exporters and traders dealing in priority im- ports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies oper- ating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to maintain with local commercial banks accounts denominated in foreign currencies. They may retain the foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for their imports. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Fi- nancial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for the issuance of import and export permits, where required. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauri- tian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Madagascar. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers from other external ac- counts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to an autho- rized dealer of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) any payment to residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The "Nonresident (External Account) Scheme/7 reintroduced on September 25, 1985, is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incen- tives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 313 open accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees in the form of savings or fixed deposit accounts and in designated foreign currencies in the form of term deposits with a minimum period of one year. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free to transfer at any time balances held therein, together with interest. Any related exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies is borne by the Bank of Mauritius. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them before April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 200,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Mauritius that have been specifically autho- rized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be in- vested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or prohibited, as specified in the third and fourth schedules, respectively, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax purposes. Commercial banks are authorized to ap- prove and transfer funds for import payments with- out limit. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges; a stamp duty of 17 percent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Local commer- cial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of goods of lower priority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are per- mitted without restriction. Foreign exchange for for- eign travel and gift remittances may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the central bank. The basic per- sonal travel allowance is the equivalent of £ stg. 2,000 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of £ stg. 200 a day. The central bank applies these rules flexibly and approves bona fide applications for expenditures exceeding these amounts. Residents may hold international credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad. When a credit card is used, approved travel allowances may be exceeded, subject to the pay- ment of a charge of 15 percent; the charge will be exempt, however, if the traveler provides documen- tary proof to the central bank that the expenses exceeding the approved limits represented bona fide travel expenses. A10 percent tax, together with a surcharge of 10 percent thereon, is levied on all air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents for inter- national travel. There are established limits for pay- ments and transfers in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, gifts, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical ser- vices, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be granted by the exchange control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited, unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products val- ued at over Mau Rs 50 require an export permit from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Exports of cer- tain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on sugar exports in respect of the first 3,000 tons; for exports exceeding 3,000 tons, a uniform tax of 18.75 percent is levied. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be repatriated within six months after shipments and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MAURITIUS Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. fer abroad are subject to payment of the 35 percent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. However, they are entitled to foreign exchange allowances of up to the equivalent of £ stg. 200 a person to cover incidental expenses to be incurred in connection with travel to their new country of residence. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain re- strictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 15 percent transfer tax. Nonresidents also require permission to transfer capital to any country; such transfers are subject to a 15 percent transfer tax. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for re- patriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin. Proceeds from the sale, liquida- tion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatri- ated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. How- ever, permission for repatriation of capital is normally given for capital brought in on or after April 5, 1966. Repatriation of capital by foreign in- vestors is tax free up to the amount of original in- vestment. Any capital gains are blocked. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 15 percent stamp duty, or for investment in Mauritius without payment of the stamp duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of off- shore banking facilities came into force on Jan- uary 1, 1989. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 200,000 a family from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a Blocked Ac- count; any releases that may be approved for trans- Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold bullion coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commem- orative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 15 percent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to tem- porary customs surcharges. Changes During 1989 Payments for Invisibles June 23. The basic business travel allowance was raised to £ stg. 200 from £ stg. 120 a day, and the personal travel allowance was raised to £ stg. 2,000 from £ stg. 1,200 a person every two years. Resi- dents who hold international credit cards were per- mitted to use them to pay for travel expenses ex- ceeding their approved travel allowances, subject to the payment of a charge of 15 percent; the charge would be exempt, however, if the traveler provided documentary proof to the central bank that the ex- penses exceeding the approved limits represented bona fide travel expenses. Capital July 14. The transfer tax on capital transfers was reduced to 15 percent from 45 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. There are two exchange markets: the controlled market and the free market. In principle, the ex- change rate in the controlled market is adjusted daily on the basis, inter alia, of the following factors: (1) the demand and supply of foreign exchange in the controlled market; (2) the objective regarding an adequate level of international reserves; (3) the movement of domestic and foreign prices; and (4) movements in other exchange rate relation- ships.1 Transactions at the controlled market rate include (1) merchandise export receipts (with some exceptions); (2) payments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, leasings or rents, fiscal obligations, expenses relating to insurance, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than fixed as- sets; (3) royalties for the use of foreign technologies and patents; (4) payments of principal, interest, and related expenses resulting from financial and suppliers' credits by the public and private sectors; (5) payments for imports with some exceptions; (6) expenses in relation to the Mexican foreign ser- vice and contributions regarding Mexico's member- ship in international organizations; and (7) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secre- tariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Eligible participants in the controlled market may choose to complete the transaction at a retail rate, agreed between participants and the banks, or at the "equilibrium exchange rate," which is deter- mined for the controlled market each day at a fixing session (in the Bank of Mexico), in which represen- tatives of the major banks exchange bids for pur- chases and sales of foreign exchange; the Bank of Mexico may also submit bids in these sessions. On December 28, 1989, the equilibrium exchange rate in the controlled market for the U.S. dollar was Mex$2,641 per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the same market were Mex$2,627 and Mex$2,647 per US$1, respectively. Within the free market, no limitations apply to the access to, ownership, or transfer of foreign ex- change. On December 28, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were Mex$2,667 and Mex$2,692 per US$1, respectively. 1 Beginning January 1,1989, the peso is being depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by preannounced fixed amounts. The Bank of Mexico provides, through the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FICORCA), an instrument for forward cover of for- eign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted or rescheduled on a long-term basis with foreign fi- nancial entities and suppliers. On January 5, 1987, the Bank of Mexico began to operate a short-term foreign exchange risk coverage market through which commercial and financial operations are cov- ered against exchange rate fluctuations. The scheme applies only to the U.S. dollar, and the coverage is based on the equilibrium exchange rate prevailing on the date of contract. All Mexican credit institutions are authorized to operate in the free market either directly or through their exchange houses. Mexican banks are pro- hibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to a Mexican bank for the purpose of a borrow- ing operation, or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of International Operations in the Bank of Mexico. Financial institutions located in the areas bordering the United States are permit- ted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Mexican residents. On November 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by SHCP and the Bank of Mexico. The exchange control system is administered by the Bank of Mexico through Mexican credit institutions, which carry out most of the transactions in the controlled market. Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below, there are no obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency of payments to nonresidents, neither in the free nor in the controlled market, but obligations deriving from the sale of foreign exchange in the controlled market must be made in the currencies 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 MEXICO approved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance with the payments agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, controlled market payments to these countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar arrange- ments exist with Costa Rica, Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI) are required for 263 of the 11,856 items in Mexico's general import tariff, with the exception of temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. For the items subject to licensing, ap- plications for import licenses may cover the appli- cant's import needs for nine months on average, and can be extended for an additional three months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the appli- cant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an over- all limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an export- er's declaration of shipment. Imports by public en- tities and governmental agencies are subject to prior approval by the SECOFI. Since July 1, 1988, the im- port tariff structure has been based on the harmo- nized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tariffs. A free trade zone regime is granted for cer- tain regions in the country until June 30, 1991, and until August 31, 1995, for the newly established zone with Guatemala. This regime allows imports into these regions without customs tariffs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those pro- duced domestically in the same regions. In the controlled market, importers may acquire foreign exchange for the full value of merchandise already imported and for which payment has not yet been made. Importers must register a commit- ment of use (or devolution) of foreign exchange (CUDD) to obtain foreign currency for advance pay- ments; they have a period of 180 days to show evi- dence of use of the foreign exchange for payment of imports and associated expenses or to return the foreign exchange if no adequate substantiation of its use is provided. Full advance payment for all im- ports is allowed if the value of goods does not ex- ceed US$10,000, or if payment is made through letters of credit; in the latter case, there is a 60-day period in which to show evidence of use of foreign exchange. For imports exceeding US$10,000 in value, only 20 percent advance payment is permit- ted. Advance payment for associated expenses is permitted up to maximum authorized percentages (6 percent f.o.b. value for North American imports, and 8 percent f.o.b. value for other regions). Confir- mation by suppliers is required for individual trans- actions exceeding US$10,000. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign exchange proceeds up to 100 per- cent of their requirements for advance payments of imported inputs. These facilities are also extended to the imported inputs, already within the country, of their domestic suppliers. Payments for Invisibles Except for the items specified below, payments for invisibles are made through the free exchange market. The payments made through the controlled exchange market consist of: (1) principal and inter- est payments on public and private sector debt with foreign financial entities, foreign suppliers, and Mexican banks; (2) fees related to credits from for- eign financial entities, up to 3/4 of 1 percent of the total amount of each credit; (3) expenses of the Mexican foreign service, contributions, and allot- ments for Mexico's membership in international or- ganizations; (4) expenses related to foreign trade; (5) royalties and obligations deriving from juridical acts in force as of June 1,1984 and recorded with the National Registry of Technological Transfer, with payments to be made through authorized Mexican banks; and (6) expenses on account of scholarships granted by the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) and those approved by CONACYT or the Bank of Mexico for studies in for- eign countries. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mex- ico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico, or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexi- can companies, except when Mexican firms deem it convenient not to execute such transactions, in which case the prior authorization of SHCP is re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 317 quired. The provisions are not applicable to reinsurance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exportation of a few specified items is prohibited. All merchan- dise export receipts in excess of US$5,000 a week are subject to surrender requirements in the controlled market, within a standard period of 90 days. Hand- icraft exports of up to US$8,000 per operation are exempt from the surrender requirement. Special procedures apply for the surrender of export pro- ceeds beyond the standard limit of 90 days. If a sale of foreign exchange occurs beyond the required period without authorization, the applicable ex- change rate is only a certain percentage of the rate of the selling day, which varies according to the delay in surrendering the foreign exchange. Exporters of jewelry and precious metals must surrender their proceeds through specifically authorized credit institutions. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open in Mexican banks special accounts denominated in Mexican pesos; but only proceeds from exports can be deposited in such accounts. Interest payable on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of deprecia- tion of the controlled exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rates. Mexican banks are also authorized to accept deposits in U.S. dollars by Mexican firms and grant loans in foreign currency for the production, ship- ment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits can be constituted only in U.S. dol- lars and do not earn an interest rate higher than LIBOR plus 1 percent. Individual deposit accounts under this scheme must be for a minimum of US$5,000, with the exception of deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. Payments are made abroad in foreign currency. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Ex- ports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. With effect from June 6,1985, the Federal Govern- ment provides a facility called "Certificates of the Right to Import Merchandise for Export" (DiMEx), through which exporters with at least 30 percent value added may import, without permit or license requirement, up to 30 percent of the value of their exports; excluded from the scheme are 297 items of the general import tariff, representing 2.5 percent of total import items. Exporters are also eligible to purchase imported inputs at the controlled market rate, as are im- porters. In addition, they may use their export pro- ceeds to pay for imports, associated expenses, and recorded financial debt and suppliers' credits. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States on April 23,1985, Mexico has been granted, until 1991, the benefit of the injury test in countervailing duty investigations, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to sell foreign exchange through the controlled market for the equivalent in Mexican pesos of the payment they make for items specified in the Exchange Control Decree, including payment of wages, salaries, leas- ings or rents, the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets, local and federal taxes, insurance premiums, interest and other ac- cessory payments pertaining to financing payable in Mexican pesos, as well as any other operational expenditure within Mexico. This regime does not apply to foreign exchange earmarked for payment of credits granted to third parties by foreign finan- cial institutions for the construction of buildings, or industrial parks whose use or enjoyment has been granted to such in-bond industries, provided it has been agreed that the amount of the benefits from such use or possession be applied to liquidating the aforementioned credits. In-bond industries must sell their foreign ex- change no later than the last business day of the month in which such expenditures are made. In addition, they must present to the Bank of Mexico, and to SECOFI within the first 15 business days of each month, information as to the dates and amounts of foreign exchange sold to the country's credit institutions during the month immediately preceding, as well as the amounts of Mexican pesos they disbursed to pay each of the specified items. In-bond industries must effect these foreign ex- change transactions through Mexican credit institutions. Capital Foreign investment, including the transfer of funds relating to increment of capital stock as well as payment of dividends, is excluded from the coverage of the controlled foreign exchange market. Accordingly, such activities are effected through the free market and are not subject to any restrictions, having only to conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. Loan proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 MEXICO repayable abroad in foreign currency and obtained from foreign financial institutions or Mexican credit institutions are channeled through the controlled exchange market, except when said proceeds are used for the servicing of specified long-term exter- nal debt or for import payments. The Federal Gov- ernment has ownership and control over certain strategic areas, such as petroleum, basic pe- trochemical production, radioactive minerals, elec- trical and nuclear energy, specified mining ac- tivities, railroads, mail and banking services, and other activities so stated by Mexican law. In addi- tion, foreign investment is forbidden in the follow- ing activities: insurance and surety bond com- panies, investment funds, stockbroker firms, money exchange establishments, radio and televi- sion, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified as such by the Federal Government. Restrictions on foreign capital participation in new direct foreign investment were liberalized sub- stantially in May 1989. Foreign investors may hold a majority share in new firms (in sectors other than those restricted to the State and national com- panies) as long as new investments meet the follow- ing conditions: (1) they must not exceed a max- imum amount set periodically by the National Foreign Investment Commission (CNIE); (2) the fi- nancing that they require must be obtained outside the country (in the case of foreign companies estab- lished in Mexico, the capital requirement may be financed from their own resources); (3) they must be located outside the areas of greatest industrial concentration; (4) the accumulated foreign ex- change flows that they generate must balance over the first three years of operation; (5) they must create permanent employment and establish ade- quate training programs; and (6) they must use appropriate technology and observe legal provi- sions regarding ecological standards. Foreign inves- tors are authorized to hold a 100 percent share in new or existing in-bond enterprises producing for export markets. Foreign investments are permitted in the Mexican stock market through specially de- signed trust funds, but participation is not allowed in the administration of the companies involved. Direct foreign investments in Mexico must be re- corded with the CNIE, and applications by foreign individuals or enterprises to acquire more than 49 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the CNIE. Invest- ment proposals to which the CNIE has not re- sponded within a period of 45 days after application is submitted are considered to have been approved. The rules favoring the trust funds that enable foreign investors to participate in tourist projects have been simplified. Gold Goldsmiths or manufacturers may acquire non- monetary gold through authorized Mexican credit institutions at the controlled exchange rate for the elaboration of products earmarked for export. There is a value-added tax of 15 percent on sales of non- monetary gold. Purchases and sales of monetary gold by Mexican credit institutions are exempt from the tax. Monetary gold exports are exempted from foreign exchange surrender requirements, up to a maximum of 200 grams. Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the free market exchange rate. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The rules governing the establishment of the peso's exchange rate were modified, whereby it would be depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by preannounced fixed amounts. August 31. Loans from international financial or- ganizations were transacted at the controlled ex- change market rate. Imports and Import Payments January 11. It was announced that products sub- ject to tariff rates of 0-5 percent would be subject to a rate of 10 percent. June 28. Importers were required to register with the National Registry of Importers and Exporters. December 11. Changes to regulations affecting the importation of new automobiles were announced. The new regulations would be implemented begin- ning January 1, 1991. During 1991 and 1992, auto- mobile imports would be allowed up to a limit equivalent to 15 percent of domestic sales. All im- ports must contain Mexican value added of at least 36 percent. Changes to regulations affecting the importation of light lorries would enter into effect in 1993, and those for heavy lorries in 1994. Exports and Export Proceeds June 28. Exporters were required to register with the National Registry of Importers and Exporters. July 27. A joint commission for the promotion of non-oil exports, with the participation of the official and private sectors, was established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 319 August 22. A free trade zone with Guatemala was established. The zone will be in operation until Au- gust 31, 1995. October 4. An agreement to facilitate trade and investment between Mexico and the United States was signed. Capital May 1. Restrictions on foreign capital participa- tion in new direct foreign investments were liber- alized substantially. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dir- ham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of varia- tions in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's for- eign trade and the pattern of currencies of settle- ment. Buying and selling rates for most other cur- rencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On De- cember 29, 1989, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.40111 buying and DH 1.40531 sell- ing, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.1012 buying and DH 8.1424 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency sepa- rately. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and sell- ing rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in "convertible currencies" (the curren- cies listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Mauritanian ouguiya and the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their ex- cess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was es- tablished by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrange- ments. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U. A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2CFA francs and Gibraltar pounds. foreign exchange that have been concluded be- tween banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corre- sponds to the spot exchange rate, against the pay- ment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by the authorized banks; provisions are made for extend- ing contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Long-term borrowing (maturities exceeding five years) undertaken by financial institutions for the purpose of financing essential new projects may be covered by an exchange rate guarantee. Financial institutions pay into an exchange guarantee fund the difference between the rate of interest on their borrowing abroad and the rate of remuneration on domestic bonds of comparable maturity, plus a commission. Under normal circumstances, these premiums are expected to ensure that the guarantee scheme is self-financing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import com- mitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the importer is not regis- tered in the commercial register or settlements are phased and include interest or charges. Imports that do not involve payment do not require the visa of the Exchange Office. A part of the Port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and ex- change controls. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in convertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib or through foreign accounts in convertible dirhams.3 Settlements with Inoperative bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Guinea and Mali. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 321 Mauritania and Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or convertible Mauritanian ouguiyas and convertible Tunisian dinars, respectively. Imports originating in coun- tries in the convertible currency area may be paid for only in convertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib. Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in con- vertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows. 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical foreign nationals, either resident or non- resident. These may be freely credited with book transfers from abroad, with foreign bank notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, and with foreign currency drawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign cur- rency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are re- served for physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible currencies, including bank notes. They may be deb- ited freely for payments in Morocco and for pur- chases from Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible curren- cies. Foreign transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards with which to settle their bills in Mo- rocco and abroad. 3. Convertible Dirham Accounts may be opened and maintained by nonresident Moroccans, with an initial deposit of the equivalent of at least DH 50,000 in foreign exchange. Deposits may be either at sight or at term, overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers au- thorized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) amounts from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams; and (5) amounts from term deposits in Convertible Dir- ham Accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al- Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dir- hams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in Convert- ible Dirham Accounts. Provided that appropriate receipts are retained, the accounts may also be deb- ited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign-currency-denominated means of payment. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities without retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange that lack retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts re- lated to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco (subject to a limit of DH 30,000 a Gregorian calendar year for each account, regardless of the number of beneficiaries or of journeys made by them to Mo- rocco. However, at the request of the parties con- cerned, the Exchange Office is prepared to grant higher limits, upon presentation of specific requests giving full details of the nature of the expenditure to be incurred in Morocco). 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these ac- counts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Mo- rocco, and up to DH 30,000 a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate relatives; but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by Bank Al-Maghrib for the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Central Bank of Mauritania. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an an- nual General Import Program, which distinguishes two categories of imports (Lists A and B), and is applicable to imports from all countries. Goods on List A are freely importable. To import these items, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 MOROCCO the importer signs an import commitment (engage- ment d'importation), which does not require ad- ministrative approval unless the goods are im- ported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis.4 Items on List B are subject to control either through licensing or state trading. To import these items, an import certificate (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. In general, no formal quotas are established for goods on List B. Cereals, fertilizers, sugar, tea, and tobacco are imported exclusively by official agencies. For all imports, the import title—import certifi- cate or import commitment—must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the coun- try of shipment of the goods concerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified im- ports financed by foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods can be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. At the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank, a stamp duty of DH 50 is levied on import transactions valued at DH 2,000 or more. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. The maximum tariff rate was progressively lowered from 400 percent in 1982 to 45 percent in 1986. In addition to regular customs tariffs, a fiscal levy of 12.5 percent ad valorem was introduced in Jan- uary 1988, consolidating the previous special im- port tax and stamp duty. Imports used as inputs in export production activities may be exempted from import duties and other import restrictions under the temporary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted to im- ports of capital goods by enterprises in the tourism and shipping sectors, as well as other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Mo- rocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items are subject to mini- mum import prices (references prices), which are intended to serve as antidumping or safeguard measures. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are allowed to transfer to nonresident foreign persons, without limit as to the amount or timing, the income generated by their investments in Morocco.5 Similar transactions are permitted for Moroccans living abroad, provided that the investments are made in foreign exchange or by debiting convertible dirham accounts and that they are accompanied by a retransfer guarantee. The transfer of this type of income requires the authorization of the Exchange Office. The authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or ex- port documents. Without authorization from the Exchange Office, Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by nonresident foreigners while working for, or on be- half of, the Moroccan enterprise in Morocco. Some payments are subject to limitations. A for- eign employee may transfer to the employee's coun- try of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 percent of his monthly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee's family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the Ministry of National Educa- tion are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days' leave taken abroad, 70 percent for 60 days' leave, and 105 percent for 70 days' leave. For the medical or paramedical professions, the assess- ment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 per- cent, according to whether the spouse lives in Mo- rocco) is based on taxable income minus applicable duties and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in indus- try, trade, agriculture, and crafts. For retired per- sons the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 percent) is based on gross pensions. Moroccan residents as well as residents of foreign nationality who do not periodically transfer funds abroad and who wish to travel abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allocation equivalent to DH 100 a person a year. There is a special allocation for pil- grimages. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. For- eign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher edu- cation for a child studying abroad. 4Imports of goods on List A on c.i.f. terms require prior ex- change control approval. 5The transfer of dividends of nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies not listed on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change requires the approval of the Exchange Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 323 For business travel a standard allowance equiv- alent to DH 1,500 a day is granted, up to DH 15,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist industry may obtain foreign exchange allocations of 3 percent of their turnover with no limit on the amount per trip. These allocations may be deposited in an exporter's account in convertible dirhams. The allocation is- sued for business travel may be added to the alloca- tion issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursuing higher studies at the first, second, or third level abroad and who do not hold scholarships may obtain monthly allocations of foreign exchange up to the maximum equivalent of DH 3,000. Students holding scholarships are eligible for a supplemen- tary monthly allocation equivalent to DH 1,500. Stu- dents are entitled to an annual installation al- lowance equivalent to DH 5,000. The export of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Visitors to Mo- rocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of the exchange certificate(s) for an amount equal to up to the amount remain- ing from the original conversion of foreign exchange to dirhams. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time or returning to their work- place abroad may be granted DH 5,000 in foreign bank notes upon presentation of an employment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items, such as sub- sidized food products. Fruits, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported either directly by the producers or through a state- trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation—OCE), which is also in charge of wine exports. There is a state monopoly over the export of phosphates and phosphate products. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax amounting to 5 percent for hydrocarbons and phosphates and 0.5 percent for all other minerals. A1 percent quality control tax is applied to exports of foodstuffs. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatri- ate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place within one month of the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the matu- rity date fixed in the commercial contract; in princi- ple, this date must not be set more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign exchange from abroad, foreign exchange is not automatically surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib if it represents the proceeds of mobilization of foreign exchange claims arising out of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accru- ing from all their noncommercial claims and sur- render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions. Moroc- cans working abroad must surrender such curren- cies within one month of re-entry, but are permit- ted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered, up to a maximum of DH 5,000. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers also may bring in for- eign bank notes in any amount, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obligated to de- clare to the Exchange Office all foreign held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The trans- fer of capital abroad by residents must be ap- proved.6 Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of gifts are not normally ap- proved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange alloca- tions for the transfer of inheritances are limited to the equivalent of DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Permissi- ble transfers of assets by resident foreigners on final departure are fixed at DH 25,000 for each year of stay, with no upper limit on the amount. In the case of resident foreigners leaving Morocco, Capital Ac- counts and Suspense Accounts with a balance not exceeding DH 100,000 on June 30, 1986 may be transferred in their entirety, provided that the bank has submitted to the Exchange Office^ requests for approval accompanied by the necessary informa- tion concerning these accounts before June 30,1987. A new industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain 6 Operations involving the conveyance of real property located in Morocco and belonging to foreign persons are not subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MOROCCO sectors and an easing of repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign investment. In addition, an investment code intro- duced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign inves- tors in most areas of the tourist sector; it also provides for full repatriation of tourist-related profits after tax, without any restraint on timing. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include: (1) purchases on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; (2) purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change or participation in a Moroccan firm; (3) subscriptions to (2); (4) investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office build- ings; (5) lending to residents; (6) payment of local expenses in excess of DH 30,000 during the account holder's stay in Morocco; (7) any payments to bene- ficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; (8) any payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; (9) gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; (10) subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change; (11) subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term, fixed-yield securities is- sued by a Moroccan public entity; (12) custody charges and commissions on securities; and (13) payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate lo- cated in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Ac- counts may also be debited for investments in Mo- rocco, within the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 percent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident and 25 percent of the company's total capital. The following types of investment are permitted without the prior authorization of the Exchange Of- fice: (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capi- tal increase of an existing company; (3) purchase of Moroccan securities; (4) non-interest-bearing con- tributions to partnership current accounts; (5) purchase of real property; (6) self-financing of construction projects; (7) creation or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capital through the capitalization of reserves, car- ryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available, or the consolidation of partnership cur- rent accounts. Similarly, operations involving the conveyance of investments between foreigners no longer require the authorization of the Exchange Office. The repatriation of capital for the above in- vestments is guaranteed. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable be- tween nonresidents. These are 7.5 percent, five- year bonds on which interest and redemption pro- ceeds are transferable. The import and export of securities require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from nonresi- dents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, pro- vided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The exchange rate guaranteed scheme for foreign borrowings was modified. The new system would cover only long-term borrowings (maturities exceeding five years) undertaken by financial in- stitutions for the purpose of financing essential new projects. Financial institutions would pay into an exchange guarantee fund the difference between the rate of interest on their borrowing abroad and the rate of remuneration on domestic bonds of a comparable maturity, plus a commission. Under normal circumstances, these premiums are ex- pected to ensure that the budgetary cost of the guarantee scheme is eliminated. Nonresident Accounts April 25. The minimum initial deposit required for a nonresident Moroccan to open a convertible dirham account was reduced to DH 50,000 from DH 500,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 325 Imports and Import Payments Capital March 1. The requirement to provide dirham de- posits in connection with certain requests for for- eign exchange was abolished. September 1. Under the 1989 General Import Pro- gram, some 120 items were transferred from List B (restricted) to List A (freely importable). December 5. The Moroccanization Decree of 1973, which established a general limit of 49 percent on the allowable share of foreign participation in local enterprises, was abrogated. Limits on the share of foreign participation would, however, continue to apply in a few sectors in accordance with sectoral decrees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plural Meticais), which is pegged to a weighted basket consisting of 10 major currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of these currencies in Mozambique's external transactions in goods and services. Exchange rates for these and 11 other currencies are published daily by the Bank of Mozambique.1 On December 29, 1989, the buy- ing and selling rates of the metical, in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mt. 806.4529 = US$1 and Mt. 822.5820 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares an- nually, in consultation with central and provincial government agencies, a foreign exchange budget for the following year, as part of the Central State Plan. Imports and exports are authorized by means of licenses, within limits and on the basis of pri- orities established in the foreign exchange budget. Foreign exchange transactions, including the sur- render of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the Bank of Mozambique, which is both the central bank and the only bank with external bank- ing functions apart from certain invisible transac- tions, which a small private bank is authorized to handle. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Mozambique has bilateral clearing agreements with Tanzania and the German Democratic Re- public. It maintains bilateral payments arrange- ments with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. Noncitizens resident in Mozambique may hold foreign exchange accounts in the Bank of Mozam- bique and Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. Noncitizens resident in Mozambique under work contracts and having income in national currency that is earned from providing services under work contracts may hold national currency accounts in any bank operating in the country. There is no re- striction on the use of these accounts. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific purposes based on legiti- mate interests they retain in Mozambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the competent au- thorities. Ex-residents (nationals and foreigners who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank accounts in Mozambique, but their use is sub- ject to prior authorization, in accordance with Min- istry of Finance regulations; drawings may be made by the holders of such accounts for payment of taxes, certain types of debt (fees, and debts to the Government or government agencies, and to credit institutions or insurance companies, provided that such debts are properly verified), authorized outward transfers, maintenance allowances for spouses and relatives, expenses incurred by the account holders while visiting the country, and other payments for which authorization is re- quested from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, within limits established in the Central State Plan. The license specifies, among other things, the place of embar- kation or disembarkation of the goods and the amount and currency of payment. Enterprises may obtain import licenses from the Ministry of Com- merce, which considers applications on a case-by- case basis. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, petroleum, food, and medicines are given priority. Individuals may import goods up to US$500 for personal use without an exchange license if expen- ditures from the country's foreign exchange fund are not involved; licenses are required but routinely provided for higher-value imports so financed. Cer- tain stores (lojas francas) operating under govern- ment franchise import goods for retail sales in U.S. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 327 dollars and South African rand. A system for the nonadministrative allocation of foreign exchange (SNAAD) was introduced in October 1989 for key imported inputs for garment and shoe industries and for spare parts for freight carriers and public transportation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the Bank of Mozambique upon presentation of the authoriza- tion granted by the Ministry of Finance. Allowances for travel are made available to individuals only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment pur- poses, and such allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Each ministry receives an alloca- tion to be used for business travel and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mo- zambique may remit abroad all or part of their sal- aries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount declared on entry. Exports and reimports of domestic currency are limited to Mt. 500 a person leaving the country temporarily for the purpose of meeting incidental expenses on re- turn. Citizens leaving the country on business and private travel are entitled to purchase foreign cur- rency at the border up to the equivalent of US$12.50 once a year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, and all export proceeds must be collected through the Bank of Mozambique. Export licenses are granted if applica- ble legal requirements are fulfilled. Exporters of most products and some services are allowed to retain a percentage of foreign exchange proceeds for purchases of imported inputs; their average reten- tion rate is about 40 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Mozambique. Nonresident travelers must convert the equivalent of US$25 into meticais upon arrival. Mozambicans working abroad under officially arranged contracts (mostly in the Republic of South Africa and the German Democratic Re- public) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earn- ings through the Bank of Mozambique for conver- sion into meticais. Capital The Government and the Bank of Mozambique are authorized to borrow abroad. Enterprises are also allowed to borrow abroad, provided that the Bank of Mozambique guarantees the loans. All for- eign borrowing is channeled through the Bank of Mozambique, which registers such loans, guaran- tees them upon request, and monitors foreign debt. The Direct Foreign Investment Law, published in April 1984, aims to encourage the participation of foreign capital both in the formation of new enter- prises with exclusively foreign capital and in asso- ciation with other Mozambican enterprises. For this purpose, the Foreign Investment Promotion Office was established in 1984. The Direct Foreign Invest- ment Law specifies guarantees to investors as well as the right to transfer invested capital and a portion of profits abroad. The incentives for foreign invest- ments include tax and customs exemptions for spec- ified periods of time and access to domestic credit. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree 11/81 of July 25, 1981. The respon- sibilities to enforce this decree rest with the Bank of Mozambique. Imports of gold or other precious metals are governed by special regulations. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During the year, the exchange rate of the metical was adjusted in approximately monthly steps from Mt. 620.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 632.40 = US$1 (selling), on December 31, 1988 to Mt. 830.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 846.60 = US$1 (selling) on December 1. December 1. The external value of the metical was pegged to a weighted basket consisting of ten major currencies in Mozambique's external transactions in goods and services. Prescription of Currency April 1. Mozambique became the sixteenth mem- ber country of the Southern and Eastern Africa Pref- erential Trade Area (PTA). Implementation of Mo- zambique's obligations was to begin in early 1990, but Mozambique's earnings from port and rail dues were exempted from clearing house rules for three years. July 7. A preferential trade agreement with the Republic of South Africa came into effect permitting Mozambique to export, for consumption in that country or Botswana, specified amounts of certain products (fish, prawns, cashew nuts, citrus fruit, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MOZAMBIQUE wooden furniture, coconut oil, fiber-cement sheet- ing, tires and tubes, and works of art) at a reduced customs duty rate of 3 percent and without import surcharges. The agreement is nonreciprocal and is renewable annually. Nonresident Accounts November 27. The Banco Standard Totta de Mo- zambique began operating foreign currency ac- counts for embassies and consulates, international organizations, and resident foreign citizens. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rate of customs tariffs (levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports) was reduced from a uniform rate of 10 percent to 7.5 percent. The scope of exemptions was also narrowed, in principle, to only exceptional cases, subject to existing interna- tional agreements. Virtually all specific customs tar- iff rates (almost one half of all rates) were converted to ad valorem rates, and exemptions from the customs tariffs were reduced significantly. October 5. The system of nonadministrative al- location of foreign exchange (SNAAD) came into operation. Initially, products eligible for automatic licensing included key inputs for the garment and shoe industries and spare parts for freight carriers and public transportation. Export and Export Proceeds February 28. The retention rates for exporters of most traditional products were reduced, with some retention privileges discontinued for 1989. The aver- age retention rate thus declined from about 50 per- cent in 1988 to about 40 percent in 1989. Capital July 7. Authority was delegated to the Minister of Finance to conclude international investment pro- tection agreements under the 1984 investment law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat- SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee) are also determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.4299 and K 6.5585, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, the Netherlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on ap- propriate cross rates published in the London Finan- cial Times. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Myanmar maintains no bilateral payments agree- ments. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settle- 329 ments with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an External Account in Myanmar. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international or- ganizations, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents. Such accounts are normally held in deut- sche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Myanmar are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. The following regulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts: (a) Foreign currency accounts of national firms Private exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade are allowed to open foreign cur- rency accounts with their export proceeds. The per- centage of export proceeds that the exporter is al- lowed to retain (ranging between 60 and 100 per- cent) is determined by the Importers, Exporters, and Business Representatives Registration Commit- tee of the Ministry of Trade. Account holders are allowed to import under valid import licenses is- sued by the same ministry on the basis of import letters of credit or on a collection basis. (b) Foreign currency accounts (of national individuals) The following are currently allowed to open for- eign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar nationals re- turning from abroad after completing their assign- ments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myan- mar seamen working with foreign shipping lines under the existing instructions; (4) Myanmar na- tionals working with the United Nations and its affiliated organizations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myanmar na- tionals receiving pensions in foreign currency after serving with foreign governments or international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 MYANMAR organizations; (7) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign exchange for services rendered to foreign indi- viduals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) Myanmar nationals receiving their pay in foreign currency from foreign firms abroad for services rendered as agents; (9) Myan- mar nationals receiving rentals in foreign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) Myan- mar nationals receiving foreign currency in inheri- tance owing to the death of their relatives; (11) My- anmar nationals receiving foreign currency in compensation from foreign firms and insurance companies owing to an accident causing death or disability while serving with foreign firms; and (12) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in the form of gifts or presents from a blood relative living abroad or on a friendly basis. A foreign currency account may be opened in any of the following currencies: deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Account holders are allowed to make payments for personal imports and, with prior approval, may pay for medical treatment abroad with the funds from their accounts. (c) Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign In- vestment Law enacted on November 30, 1988, eco- nomic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission, and foreigners employed by such economic organi- zations are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. Under the same law, the following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Commission: (1) for- eign currency belonging to the person who has brought in foreign capital; (2) foreign currency per- mitted by the Commission to be withdrawn by the person who has brought in foreign capital; (3) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who has brought in foreign capital; and (4) balances of salary and lawful in- come obtained by the foreign person during perfor- mance of service in the State and remaining after payments of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him and his family. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source—principally opium and other nar- cotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports in- volving use of official foreign exchange are made by the public sector through the ministries. The My- anma Export-Import Services (MEIS) import goods for the use of the private sector. In general, state economic enterprises and departments import goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements. Licenses are not required. A licensing fee of 5 percent of the c .i .f. value is levied on imports that are intended for resale, but imports for departmental use are exempted. Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and ship- ments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myanmar Five Star Shipping Corporation wher- ever possible. Imports of certain products require trade permits as prescribed by the Ministry of Trade. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enter- prises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget after endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign exchange allocations can be transferred by a ministry from one enterprise to another; transfers among ministries require cabi- net approval. Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make payments for personal imports without limit with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts while they are working abroad under official permits may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. My- anmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Border imports do not require permits as long as they are not pro- hibited goods. Payments for Invisibles There are no licensing requirements for pay- ments in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institu- tions abroad and payments for subscriptions to cer- tain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernment, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Myanmar. Outward ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 331 remittances of insurance premium payments other than for the Myanma Insurance Corporation are not permitted. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now resid- ing in their native countries. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Myanmar nationals require official permission to travel abroad. Such permission may be granted for travel on official missions, including trade missions that comprise private businessmen representing the Chamber of Commerce, for approved religious pilgrimages, or for approved employment abroad. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case- by-case basis, while travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholar- ships. Tourist travel by Myanmar nationals has been suspended. Residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad may take out freely US$50 and the equivalent of K100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents who have stayed in Myanmar for less than six months may, on leaving the country, take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. Those who stay longer than six months must sur- render all foreign currency in their possession but may be authorized by the Exchange Control Board to keep foreign currencies in foreign exchange ac- counts. The export of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin that need to be conserved for do- mestic requirements. In practice, state agencies re- sponsible for production may export any product in excess of the need for domestic consumption. Spe- cial permits are required for exports of antiques. Exports are generally effected by the MEIS, al- though timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agricultural Produce Trading in the name of the MEIS; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export rice, a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits that are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain products, includ- ing rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, a number of beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts are prohibited from export through the border. Export proceeds must be obtained in a man- ner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities, that is, in approved convertible currencies or by debiting the kyat account of banks in the importing country, and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months of the date of ship- ment. An export-retention scheme is in operation. One hundred percent of foreign exchange proceeds from border exports may be retained by the same individual trader or cooperative responsible for the export for the purpose of purchasing officially rec- ognized imports from the same source. For border trade, when exports are made on an f .o .b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c . i .f. basis must normally be shipped by the Myan- mar Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered unless special permission to retain them is granted by the exchange control authorities, who may grant such permission to foreign nationals re- siding in Myanmar in connection with official busi- ness. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Myanmar currency is prohibited. My- anmar nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. In the case of Myanmar seamen serving abroad, the re- patriation requirement is 25 percent of basic pay, and the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to in- come tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of such na- tionals or their families. Myanmar nationals work- ing abroad in private organizations are required to remit as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their coun- try of residence. In addition, if their annual earnings exceed US$5,000, they are required to remit home between 2 and 10 percent of their earnings depend- ing on how long they stay in the foreign country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MYANMAR Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law enacted on November 30,1988 by the Union of Myanmar State Law and Order Restoration Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from (1) a foreigner to the extent of 100 percent foreign capital, and (2) a joint venture made be- tween a foreign investor and a Myanmar citizen, with the share of foreign capital of at least 35 percent of the total capital. In order to facilitate and promote foreign investment, the Commission can grant ex- emption from customs duties on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, and from income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years including the year produc- tion of goods and services began, or for more than three years, depending upon the success of the enterprise. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit shall not be na- tionalized during the term of the contract, or during an extended term, if so extended. Capital and profits are permitted to be transferred abroad through foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Li- censes for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of per- sonal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments October 13. A list of 100 products that do not require a permit for nonborder imports was published. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The Export Price Equalization Fund, through which certain exports were subsidized, was abolished. August 1. Exports of unrestricted products were permitted in border trade with Bangladesh, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, and India after payment of export taxes. Rice, certain pulses and beans, maize, cotton, groundnuts, and rubber were added to the list of products prohibited for border export trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The exchange rate of the Nepalese rupee is determined on the basis of its relationship to a currency basket. On December 29, 1989, the of ficial buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were NRs 28.40 and NRs 28.60, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian and Nepalese rupee in Nepal is unrestricted to effect all bona fide payments and transfers; pur- chases of Indian currency in excess of a small amount must be documented, and the purpose of purchases must be specified. Forward exchange cover is available only in U.S. dollars for export transactions and is provided by authorized banks. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Fi- nance for all payments in convertible currencies ex- cept for import payments and certain other spec- ified payments. The licensing of imports from countries other than India is administered by the Department of Commerce. Each government minis- try receives an allocation under the foreign ex- change budget. The licensing of exports of most goods to countries other than India is also the re- sponsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. All ex- change transactions must be settled through autho- rized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grindlay's Bank, Indo Suez Bank, and the Rastriya Banijya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force,2 and these may be 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. 2Nepal maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.; payments for transactions under the agreement with Poland are settled through a special account in pounds sterling. made in foreign currency supplied by the NRB. All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (Ban- gladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanrnar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from India may be settled in Indian rupees. The proceeds of exports to India may be obtained in Indian rupees, while pro- ceeds from other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies for which the NRB quotes buying and selling rates. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and deter- mine the rate of interest on such deposits. Eligibility for the opening of such accounts is limited to (1) Nepalese citizens earning convertible foreign currency from employment in international organi- zations, agencies, or embassies; (2) Nepalese cit- izens earning foreign currency by working abroad (except in India and Bhutan) for more than six months; (3) international organizations and foreign nationals; and (4) Indian and Bhutanese citizens residing in countries other than Nepal, India, or Bhutan. Current and time deposit accounts can be opened, the latter for periods of three months, six months, nine months, or one year. Current ac- counts may be opened with a minimum of US$1,000 (or the equivalent), and time deposits with a mini- mum of US$5,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents can withdraw their deposits at any time, and these can be converted into any convertible currency at the commercial banks. In the case of Nepalese cit- izens returning from overseas, foreign currency ac- counts have to be surrendered for local currency within one year of return to Nepal. Before that time limit expires, 70 percent of the local currency value of the deposit can be exchanged for import licenses in the same value, and the remainder can be ex- changed for local currency. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 NEPAL by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, can be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the NRB. Imports and Import Payments Import arrangements vary, depending on the source, user/importer, and commodity in question. In 1989, a unified tariff schedule was introduced, according to which imports from India and other countries are subject to the same customs duties. Imports from India generally do not require import licenses but are subject to documentation require- ments. All imports of goods from countries other than India, except imports under baggage rules, require import licenses and are subject to quantita- tive import restrictions. The licensing of imports from third countries is administered by various ministries, which receive a foreign exchange alloca- tion under the annual foreign exchange budget. Imports for licensing purposes are classified by end user and fall into the following five broad categories: industries; government offices; corporations, or- ganizations, and missions; commercial; and per- sonal. The Ministry of Commerce administers the issuance of licenses. In the case of industrial im- ports, approval is required from the Ministry of Industry before licenses are issued, with exceptions for certain items. Goods may be imported under several categories depending on the end user, in which case different license premia apply. Imports of certain items, such as cigarettes and matches, goods considered harmful for health, arms, ammunition and explosives, wireless trans- mitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission of the Government. Imports of several items, including beef, washing soap (except from India), and de- tergent powder, are banned. Imports of certain industrial raw materials are processed through the passbook system, which is administered by the Ministry of Industry. Under the passbook system, industrialists are given an annual entitlement for specified inputs imported from countries other than India based on the pre- vious year's production level and the current year's production program, with the possibility of renewal and adjustment in case of changes in production levels. The entitlement and actual utilization are recorded in the passbook. Approval for a license is readily granted up to the annual entitlement, after the use of the previous imports has been verified. After this, the Ministry of Commerce automatically issues the import licenses, and foreign exchange approval is normally granted by the NRB. More liberal conditions apply to raw materials, intermediate inputs, and final goods that are im- ported under Open General License (OGL). In the case of raw wool, trading companies and actual users are automatically given import licenses with- out limit, review of past use, or a passbook. In the case of other OGL items, a passbook is required, but such items are subject to less frequent reviews of past use than under the basic passbook system. In the case of iron billets, a review is undertaken annually. Imports of metal for handicraft industries (except silver) are carried out through special importing companies for cottage industries, and they receive a special allocation of foreign exchange. As silver handicrafts are being promoted, silver is imported by the NRB and sold to cottage industries through the commercial banks at cost. Import licenses are also auctioned every other month for specified goods. The total value of import licenses to be auctioned depends on the available amount of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange is automatically provided to successful bidders at the official exchange rate. A fee of 1 percent of the value of the license is imposed for all imports, including import licenses that are auctioned, with the exception of personal imports for which the license fee varies according to the goods to be imported and the source of finance. Margin deposits are required on letters of credit as follows: (1) 10 percent for industrial raw materials, machinery, and spare parts, if imported by regis- tered industries or allied trading enterprises; (2) 20 percent for development and construction materials (such as cement, iron and iron rods, and corrugated sheets), dairy products, writing papers, newsprint, agricultural products, medical equip- ment, and educational and scientific materials; and (3) 30 percent for all other imports. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least seven nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, they can import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, special goods worth up to NRs 15,000 twice a year. For those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month, additional imports are allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India in Indian rupees of up to NRs 500 may be made freely; payments in excess of this limit are subject to documentation require- ments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 335 For travel to countries other than India for medi- cal treatment, exchange allowance is granted as rec- ommended by a panel of doctors. Students study- ing at their own expense in these countries are granted exchange allowance covering expenses for boarding, lodging, and tuition fees on the recom- mendation of the Ministry of Education. For educa- tion in India, Rs 15,000 is granted at the beginning of the study period, with more according to documen- tation. Foreign exchange is made available for cer- tain business trips, but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and reli- gious importance, and certain other exports, includ- ing old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials, are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re-export to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Export licenses are required for ready-made gar- ments, rice, maize, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, and industrial raw materials. Exports of ready-made garments to the United States are limited by a bilat- eral agreement, which allows for growth in volume of 6 percent a year. The Nepalese Government main- tains a floor price for garment exports in order to facilitate the enforcement of exchange controls. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 provided for refunds of import duties paid by exporters and for bonded warehouses. However, the introduction of these facilities is still at an early stage. A duty relief scheme has been set up only for the ready- made garments industry and this operates in con- junction with the bonded warehouse scheme. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an es- crow bank account and is released when the gar- ments made from these imports are exported and the required documentation is provided to verify the use of the imports. The exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an autho- rized bank within six months of shipment. Unit values are defined on an f .o.b. basis. Exports of jute, jute goods, turmeric, catechu, oil cake, foodgrains, pulses, processed and semiprocessed leather, woolen carpet, and ready-made garments to coun- tries other than India in excess of US$1,000 in value are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit. Cash incentives ranging between 10 and 35 percent of the f.o.b. value are granted to 11 products— pulses, cardamom, ghee, essential oil, dried ginger, wet-blue leather, leather crust, finished leather, leather goods, jute (hessian), and resin and turpen- tine when they are exported to countries other than India. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum period of three months; this period may be extended without penalties under special circumstances outside the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds derived from transac- tions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to pro- duce evidence that they have converted a minimum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but they must be declared if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$2,000. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are pro- hibited from making any type of investment in for- eign countries, except investment specifically ex- empted by government notice; the exemptions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 NEPAL include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or fi- nancial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on ac- quired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 contains provisions regarding local equity re- quirements for foreign investment in enterprises. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related industries. Foreign investors can hold 100 percent equity in large-scale industries and up to 50 percent in medium-scale industries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 3 mil- lion; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is up to NRs 10 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 10 million are considered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 10. New regulations restricting the pre- viously unlimited convertibility between the Indian and Nepalese rupee in Nepal were announced. Un- der the new regulations, all bona fide requests for Indian rupees to effect payments and transfers for current international transactions would be met. However, for purchases of Indian currency beyond a small amount (which is still freely available), proper documentation must be supplied and requests must specify the purpose for which the Indian cur- rency is needed. Requests for current transactions would be met in full, but those for capital transac- tions would be subject to restrictions. Imports and Import Payments March 5. The rate of margin deposits for import letters of credit for development and construction materials, dairy products, writing papers, news- print, agricultural products, medical equipment, and educational and scientific materials was lowered to 20 percent from 30 percent, and that for all other products was lowered to 30 percent from 50 percent. March 23. The Trade and Transit Treaties between Nepal and India lapsed. April 11. A new unified customs tariff schedule was introduced, according to which imports from India and other countries were subject to the same customs tariffs. April 11. The premium on import licenses for raw wool used in carpet production for export was abolished. April 13. Imports of intermediate, capital, and final goods were permitted under the Open General License Scheme. July 10. Payments for imports from India in Indian rupees were required to be documented without value limits. Payments for Invisibles July 10. Payments to India in Indian rupees were required to be documented. For education, Rs 15,000 is permitted at the beginning of a school year, with additional amounts to be granted upon submission of documentary proof. For pilgrimage, Rs 10,000 per individual would be allowed. For busi- ness travel, Rs 15,000, and for other travel, Rs 5,000 would be granted initially; additional amounts would be granted upon submission of documentary proof of need. Visitors to India would be granted Rs 2,000; application would not be required for re- quests up to Rs 500. Exports and Export Proceeds March 23. The Trade and Transit Treaties between Nepal and India lapsed. April 11. The rate of export duty on all products was reduced to 1 percent. May 1. The Government announced a 25 percent cash subsidy on exports of ju te hessian to countries other than India. July 10. The rate of export duty on all products was reduced to 0.5 percent. August 3. Cash incentives ranging between 10 and 35 percent of the value (f .o.b.) were granted for the export of pulses, cardamom, ghee, essential oil, dried ginger, wet-blue leather, leather crust, finished leather, leather goods, ju te (hessian), and resin and turpentine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accor- dance with this agreement, the Netherlands main- tains the spot exchange rates between the Nether- lands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, 6 per- cent1) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1989, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 5.5870 100 Danish kroner 30.2100 100 deutsche mark 115.2350 100 French francs 34.3600 1 Irish pound 3.0870 10,000 Italian lire 16.600 100 Spanish pesetas 1.84050 5.3415 28.8825 110.1675 32.8475 2.9510 14.725 1.63250 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being mainly each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On Decem- ber 29,1989, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.9155 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward; they are free to deal with resi- dents and nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Nonbank residents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency ac- counts in the Netherlands. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transac- tions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, constitute the Nether- lands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agricul- ture, Nature Management, and Fisheries. Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their payments to and receipts from nonresidents in the Netherlands, residents are gen- erally required to use the intermediation of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the com- pilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for all pay- ments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settle- ments where no transfer of money is involved. aThe margins of the Italian lira were reduced to plus or minus 2.25 percent, elective January 8, 1990. 2The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 NETHERLANDS Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Nether- lands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations.3 Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state-trading coun- tries,4 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries (see footnote 4), most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Communities (EC) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (that is, trans- fers are properly reported). 3Since no exchange restrictions are in force, the position of the Netherlands is in full conformity with the liberalization required under the 1988 EC Capital Liberalization Directive with effect from July 1, 1990. 4State-trading countries are defined for this purpose as consis- ting of Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czech- oslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic bank notes and coins or docu- ments of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, divi- dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresi- dents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coins that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap and related products, and certain nonferrous metals.5 Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Exchange control in the Netherlands is based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980, which limits potential restriction to capital transactions, except when current payments and capital transac- tions are interwoven, as in payment intervals relat- ing to trade transactions. External capital transactions are unrestricted. Di- rect investment in the form of capital participations (inward and outward) is free of license. Both short- term lending (for less than two years) and long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affiliated com- panies or others) are free of license. Pursuant to the 5Effective January 1, 1990, the export-licensing requirement was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 339 Netherlands Bank's arrangements for the domestic capital market, public issues on the domestic capital market (with a maturity of at least two years) on behalf of residents and nonresidents are subject to a flexibly applied issue calendar. Notification to the Netherlands Bank at least one working day before the announcement of an issue in the market is re- quired only for issues of f. 50 million and larger. The Netherlands Bank's approval is not required for the timing of an issue. For all issues of guilder- denominated bearer paper, management require- ments are in force. Lead managers must be regis- tered credit institutions and must have a full- fledged securities/issuing department in the Neth- erlands. In addition, reciprocity requirements apply. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market ex- change rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eu- roguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents are free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and do- mestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon depar- ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds trans- ferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions. For prudential reasons, banks must pursue a policy to ensure that they avoid open positions in foreign currency and pre- cious metals in excess of normal banking limits. In this context, the banks are required to report their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents must be reported to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Totals of security transac- tions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resi- dent parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are sub- ject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domes- tic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at 18.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state-trading countries (see footnote 4). Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1989 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The offi- cial selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of the official buy- ing and selling rates; on December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates were NA f. 1.7895 and N A f. 1.7905, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents.3 Pur- chases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control pur- poses are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Commerce, Indus- try, and Employment. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Re- 1The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the King- dom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sur- iname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guilder are considered foreign currencies. 3Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. ceipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the cen- tral bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident ac- counts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands An- tillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports whose delivery and payment dates are more than 12 months apart must be reported to the cen- tral bank. The importation of 58 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is subject to quotas of 40 percent of the total value of domestic production. Certain commodities are subject to im- port surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remit- tances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in. The export of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is pro- hibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 341 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfer of loans to resi- dents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are sub- ject to control. Investments by residents in real es- tate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresidents require a license. Investment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antil- les do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted is permit- ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 annually. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank ac- counts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 5,000 a transaction. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subjected to limits set by the central bank, and must always be positive and in currencies listed in Article XXX of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Import quotas on 58 locally produced items were lowered to 40 percent of the total value of locally manufactured goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to inter- vene in the foreign exchange market. On Decem- ber 29,1989, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5947 and US$0.5937, re- spectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks and autho- rized foreign exchange dealers are free to ad just exchange rate quotations in response to market con- ditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, and they are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Re- serve Bank does not maintain margins in respect of forward exchange transactions. On August 5, 1982, New Zealand formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Following the relaxation of exchange control reg- ulations in December 1984, receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from controls. Until recently, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand con- tinued to administer the remaining exchange con- trol provisions, which were as follows: (1) exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transactions involving foreign cur- rency bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be handled by an au- thorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, except for small amounts, details of re- ceipts and remittances are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from overseas and for remit- tances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of prudential supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign ex- change market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. By January 1990, any institution will be able to deal in foreign exchange without authorization. The exchange control regulations will be abolished in full in February 1990. Any remaining require- ments will relate only to providing statistical and prudential information. The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand; the licensing of imports and prohibited exports is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Commerce and the Customs Department, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments By July 1, 1988, import licensing had been abol- ished for all imports, except for those covered by industry plans; previously, these licenses were gen- erally issued through a tendering system. Customs tariff rates falling outside the industry plans have also been reduced in the past few years. Average tariff rates for these industries are expected to be reduced by a fur ther one third by the end of 1992 under the program announced in December 1987. The industry plans cover selected industries that were recognized as facing high adjustment costs 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 343 when assistance was reduced.2 The plans provide specific programs for the reduction of tariffs and, in almost all cases, the removal of import licensing. For example, motor vehicles ceased to be covered by import licensing, effective January 1; also, customs tariffs on motor vehicles were reduced on January 1 and July 1, 1989, and were reduced further on Jan- uary 1, 1990. As a result of the review of the indus- try plans in 1988, some textiles, some apparel, and shipbuilding ceased to be covered by import licens- ing in 1989 as did a number of other items, includ- ing the following (dates of abolition of licensing requirements): motor vehicles, some ceramics, and some plastics (January 1); tires (April 1); canned fruit, gloves, matches, and starch products (July 1); synthetic carpet less than 4 square meters and some steel products (July 6); tobacco (October 1); and footwear componentry (November 1). Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPAR- TECA),3 imports generally enter duty free from Aus- tralia and the SPARTECA countries. The few remain- ing quantitative restrictions and tariffs on imports of goods from Australia will be removed by July 1, 1990. Under the ANZCERTA, from July 1990, anti- dumping actions to be taken by the two govern- ments against each other's imports for purposes of redressing unfair trade practices will be replaced by measures to be taken under domestic trade prac- tices legislation. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded preferential tariff preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classified as "least developed" by the United Nations. With a few exceptions, tariffs are not imposed on finished goods that are not pro- duced domestically. industries covered by industry plans include carpets, ce- ramics, electronics, footwear, general rubber goods, glassware, margarine, motor vehicles and components, plastics, shipbuild- ing, starch and related products, textiles and apparel, tires and tubes, wines, and writing instruments. Industries covered by the plans account for about 20 percent of total industrial production. On December 17, 1987, it was announced that industries cur- rently under industry plans would be included in the general tariff reduction programs on the expiration of the plans unless compelling reasons exist for continued special treatment. 3The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. Payments for Invisibles The registered banks and other foreign exchange dealers are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments; and the remittance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of con- tractual obligation to nonresidents may be freely made, although there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provided a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provided that no new restrictions be introduced and that existing restric- tions be reviewed. Currently, there are restrictions on trade in, for example, telecommunications, avia- tion, radio and television broadcasting, and postal services. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no requirement for obligatory return of export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. The Export Market Development Taxation Incen- tive (EMDTI), aimed at encouraging the develop- ment of export markets through the provision of tax rebates, is expected to be phased out by 1990. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided or to be pro- vided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) and interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio in- vestment are not required to be repatriated. The ANZCERTA provided for a liberalization of trade in services provided by New Zealand residents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as in- terest and dividends is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 NEW ZEALAND Investment Commission. The Overseas Investment Regulations were liberalized, effective August 24, 1989. At present, nonresident persons or com- panies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are also required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares when- ever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 percent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 percent or more of the voting power at any gen- eral meeting where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 million. The only sectors where more re- strictive rules apply are broadcasting, rural land acquisition, and commercial fishing. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change for investment purposes. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of assets by emigrants. Remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident is freely permitted. tions or licensing requirements for the import and export of gold. Changes During 1989 Administration of Control During 1989, a number of exchange control reg- ulations were abolished, and in February 1990 ex- change control regulations were abolished in full. Imports and Import Payments January I. Under the framework of the ANZCERTA, the import-licensing requirements and customs tar- i f fs on motor vehicles and parts imported from Aus- tralia were eliminated. Motor vehicles ceased to be covered by import licensing, and customs tariffs were reduced. Import licensing was also removed for shipbuilding. July 1. The ANZCERTA import-licensing require- ments and customs tariffs for apparel were removed. Capital Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no restric- August 24. The minimum value of direct invest- ments that require consent from the Overseas In- vestment Commission was raised to $NZ 10 million except in certain specified sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan New Cordoba. Nicaragua maintains a dual ex- change rate system, consisting of an official ex- change rate of C$38,150 = US$1 and an exchange rate administered by the two authorized exchange houses (i.e., a legal parallel market, with several branches throughout the country). On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates of the exchange houses were C$46,200 and C$47,600 per US$1, respectively. The official exchange rate ap- plies to most exchange transactions, except tourism, private remittances, and payments for certain im- ports and invisibles. The latter group of transactions is effected at the exchange rate determined by the exchange houses. In addition, there is an unrecog- nized parallel market in which the value of the new cordoba fluctuates widely. Only the Central Bank, the authorized commercial banks, and the autho- rized exchange houses can buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange houses are prohibited. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized commercial banks and the exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. However, the Cen- tral Bank approves all foreign exchange transactions of the banking system. All requests for purchases of foreign exchange through the banking system are subject to a comprehensive system of administra- tive rationing. Requests relating to low-priority im- ports and invisible payments are normally not ap- proved. The Secretariat of Foreign Exchange Allocation (CAD) is responsible for classifying im- ports according to their relative priority. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authori- zations. Some transactions not eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system can be effected in the legal parallel market or through an authorized own foreign currency deposit ac- count. The authorized exchange houses can con- duct certain transactions in the legal parallel market. Exchange licensing in the official market is fully integrated with import licensing. There are four steps in the process of approving requests for pur- chase from the banking system of foreign exchange for imports. First, the pertinent sectoral ministry determines if a foreign exchange request is consis- tent with development priorities. Second, the Emer- gency Foreign Exchange Commission (CEO) deter- mines if requests approved by the sectoral ministries are within their exchange budget alloca- tion and if global demand for foreign exchange is consistent with the supply. Third, the Central Bank Commission on Foreign Exchange Allocation (CAD) does a final check on the requirements of the first two steps and on the actual availability of foreign exchange. Fourth, a representative of the President of the Republic presides over the meetings of the CAD, which makes the final decision on requests for foreign exchange. Importers using their own foreign currency ac- counts are not required to go through the four-step approval process, but they are expected to show proof of sources of funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica and El Salvador with respect to trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan new cordobas through the Central American Clearing House; however, there are monthly limits on bank notes per exporter for com- pensation through the Central American Clearing House. Trade transactions with Honduras are set- tled on a three-month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement; if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate set- tlement is required. Trade transactions with Guatemala are carried out in U.S. dollars. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NICARAGUA Imports and Import Payments All importers using foreign exchange through the banking system are required to be registered with the Ministry of External Trade; this requirement can be waived for individuals who import only occa- sionally for their own needs and who make import settlements with foreign exchange obtained in the official market. There are three categories of regis- tered importers: (1) Empresa Nicaraguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, which has a virtual monopoly on im- ports of agricultural inputs; (2) Empresa Nicaraguense de Imporfactories, which imports capital goods for the People's Property Area (APP) enterprises (both being state enterprises under the supervision of the Ministry of External Trade); and (3) commercial and industrial importers, including border traders. Border traders are given a general license to import or export up to the equivalent of US$1,500 a month (at the exchange house market rate). In principle, general import licenses are valid until the end of the calendar year in which they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit the validity of licenses in certain cases to only 60 days. For individual imports other than those financed with own foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific permit is required. Importers must initiate their application with the pertinent sectoral minis- try. Applications for goods with the higher priorities are then submitted to the CAD for further examina- tion. Examined applications are submitted to the CAD for approval. Imports eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system are settled at the official rate. Im- ports can also be financed with the use of own foreign currency deposit accounts. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected by bank check or certified check in new cordobas, authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be settled through the banking system.1 Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but most are made through letters of credit. In addition to custom duties, certain imports are also subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespec- tive of origin, and to a customs fee. In addition, most commodities, whether imported or domes- tically produced, are subject to a 10 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Resident travelers are not allowed to take out more than the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign bank notes without a receipt from a foreign ex- change house, and a special permit from the Cen- tral Bank. Travelers may not take out of the country more than C$200,000 a month in domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Five public enterprises under the Ministry of Ex- ternal Trade have a monopoly on the exports of coffee, cotton, meat, sugar, and certain nontradi- tional exports; exports of these items require a gen- eral authorization from the Central Bank. Other exports require specific authorization from the Cen- tral Bank, which is issued after it is verified that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in international markets. With a few exceptions, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered to an au- thorized bank within 30 to 60 days of shipment. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in revocation of the export li- cense. Proceeds of all exports are surrendered at the official rate. However, 25 percent of the proceeds from industrial exports may be denominated in U. S. dollars and be used for any specified foreign ex- change expenditures of exporters. Also, 50 per- cent of the proceeds from nontraditional agri- cultural exports may be retained and used for simi- lar purposes. A few agricultural export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, which are applied progressively with the international prices for those exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, other than tourism and private remittances, must be converted at the official rate. Transfers, insurance receipts, receipts from tourism, remunerations, and hono- raria and interest receipts may be sold at the foreign exchange house rate. Tourists are required to exchange US$60 at the official rate upon arrival, but can sell any other amount at the legal parallel rate. Charges for hotel rooms (including international telephone calls) must be settled in U.S. dollars. Receipts from private remittances may be sold at the exchange house rate, subject to a limit of US$500 a month. 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963), the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the re- gion of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for imports consumed in these areas. Capital All capital transactions are effected at the official rate and require authorization from the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 347 Bank. Depending on the availability of foreign ex- change, central bank authorization is given for ser- vicing private external debt. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in interna- tional gold markets. The Central Bank can sell gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commem- orative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers from or to countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Banks levy a fixed commission of CFAF 100 plus a proportional levy of 0.15 percent for transfers inside the WAMU. For transfers outside the Operations Account Area, there is a further exchange commission at a market-determined rate. All of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers outside the WAMU must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions and domiciliation of exports and re- patriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange con- trols do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover re- quires the prior authorization of the External Fi- nance and Insurance Directorate. Such cover may be provided only with respect to payments for per- mitted imports and the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, depending on the na- ture of goods involved, and it is not renewable. There is no official scheme for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1/Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Admin- istration, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economic Promotion, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certifi- cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the Direc- torate of Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account Area country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 349 Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of eyeglasses, masonry paint, soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are subject to protective tariffs. Imports of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods require prior authorization, irrespective of origin and whether an import license or import certificate is required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Com- mon African and Mauritian Organization, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a mem- ber country of the West African Economic Com- munity (WAEC). Imports from France and from countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account of all goods other than those mentioned above and those listed in Order No. 51 MCIA/DCE of March 8, 1988 and Order No. 6/ MCIA/DCE of March 15, 1988 may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Mo- rocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the European Communities (EC), many goods from other Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller num- ber of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import title. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC countries out- side the Operations Account Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual pro- gram determined each year by the Ministry of Eco- nomic Promotion. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the correspond- ing domestic product. Goods not subject to quan- titative restriction may be imported with an import title. All import monopolies and quasi-monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1,1985, the Societe Na- tionale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the import of specified commodities, including salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. Effective November 1, 1987, the restriction on the number of traders allowed to import rice was abolished. Rice importers are no longer required to import 20 per- cent of the quantity of their rice through RINI (Rizicole du Niger). All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Import licenses or import certifi- cates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is sat- isfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance and Insur- ance Directorate if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days prior to the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under 10 years), which may be taken up to twice a year; any foreign ex- change in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re- turn to Niger must be surrendered within eight days to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings from their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate and is normally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, against presentation of sup- porting documents. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, in addition to their travel allocation. Residents traveling to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes but, when traveling to a country of the Operations Account Area outside the WAMU, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 NIGER take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other coun- tries linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Pro- motion. Exports of millet and sorghum are pro- hibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN). In March 1988, the monopoly of imports of gum arabic by COPRONIGER was abol- ished. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized interme- diary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval by the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward and out- ward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special con- trols are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All the special provi- sions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance;3 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger4 must be declared to the Minister of Fi- nance before they are made. The Minister has a 2This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 351 period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repay- ment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 and its amendments. The facilities granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning non- discrimination between Nigerien nationals and for- eign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes, the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Customs duties were imposed on im- ports of kerosene at the rate of 5 percent. February 1. The import tax on printed cotton cloth was lowered from 18 percent to 10 percent. March 1. The quantitative restrictions on the im- portation of vegetable oil were abolished. May 1. The customs duty on imports of rice was raised from 6 percent to 14 percent. The requirement that importers import 20 per- cent of rice through RINI (state trading company) was abolished. June 1. The time limit on transit tax collection on imports was shortened from two years to six months. July 1. Imports of certain cosmetic products were prohibited. The customs duty on imports of cigarettes was lowered. Imports of farina were permitted. Imports of masonry paints and eyeglasses were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. The exchange system consists of an interbank for- eign exchange market (IFEM) (authorized dealers) and a daily allocation of foreign exchange to that market by the Central Bank of Nigeria at the prevail- ing IFEM rate. The Central Bank, af ter deducting amounts required to make official external pay- ments and allowing for a targeted increase in re- serves, allocates official foreign exchange receipts to the authorized dealers based on their relative size (measured in terms of capital). Authorized dealers are free to sell to their customers foreign exchange to make any payments abroad consistent with Nigeria's exchange control regulations. The applica- ble exchange rate (or central rate) is determined by the Central Bank based on quotations of the autho- rized dealers on that day. Authorized dealers must sell foreign exchange obtained through the market (or directly from customers) at a margin of not more than 1 percent between the buying and selling rates determined by the Central Bank. That rate is deter- mined, at the Central Bank's discretion, as either (1) a weighted average of all quotations submitted by all banks; (2) a simple average of all quotations submitted by all banks; (3) the highest or lowest bank quote, provided the latter does not depreciate by more than 2 percent when compared with the rate that emerges under (2); (4) the exchange rate movements during the previous day both in the interbank market and in some world financial cen- ters; or (5) a combination of the above. Foreign ex- change bureaus that can freely buy and sell foreign currency notes from and to their clients and, to a lesser extent, only buy traveler's checks from their clients, have been in operation since August 1989. The exchange rate in this market differs from the rate in the IFEM. On December 29,1989, the central rate for the naira was N 7.650 = US$1, the average rate in the IFEM was N 7.6883 = US$1, and the average rate of the foreign exchange bureaus was N 9.4500 - US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market- determined rates are permitted between foreign ex- change dealers and their customers. These transac- tions must be the counterpart of an underlying im- port or export transaction. Approved forms "M" and their relative letters of credit are valid for six months in the first instance. Authorized foreign exchange dealers are allowed to extend the validity of approved forms and their relative letters of credit for a maximum period of an additional six months without referring to the Central Bank. Any request for further extension must be referred to the Central Bank for approval. The Central Bank of Nigeria, however, does not engage in forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for profits and dividends; for granting "ap- proved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal admin- istrator of exchange control. All licensed commer- cial banks and merchant banks have been ap- pointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign cur- rencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted for the transactions mentioned above to the Ministry of Finance. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and inci- dental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated to Nigeria and may be sold in the IFEM or to the foreign exchange bureaus, or may be re- tained in Domiciliary Accounts with authorized dealers in Nigeria; they are not required to be sur- rendered to the Central Bank. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to some ex- ternal payments falling due on transactions entered into prior to the introduction of the two-tier foreign exchange market, which was abolished on July 2, 1987. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign coun- tries may be received in Export Proceeds Domicili- ary Accounts, in any foreign currency that is freely 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 353 exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of the member states of the Community of West African states (Be- nin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House in West African Units of Account (WAUA). Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresi- dent accounts: External Accounts, Nonresident Ac- counts, Domiciliary Accounts, and Blocked Ac- counts. External Accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and in- ternational organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of for- eign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from ser- vices rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Domiciliary Accounts may be funded by residents with foreign exchange derived from external sources, but not with foreign exchange purchases in the IFEM. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the introduc- tion of the IFEM on September 29, 1986. However, the importation of some 18 items is prohibited. These include, among others, cigarettes, poultry (except day-old chicks), vegetables, fresh fruit, eggs, textile fabrics, beer, fresh milk, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, wheat and wheat products, mineral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at US$5,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Govern- ment, are subject to preshipment inspection to en- sure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid.1 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspon- dents. However, such payment is made on the un- derstanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Gov- ernment within 21 days of negotiation of the spec- ified documents. Bills of entry (for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of docu- ments, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the authorized dealer. Delivery of foreign exchange for a valid pur- chase (spot) order must take place within 3 working days of the date of the purchase contract. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on most payments for invisibles. Basic allowances are pro- vided for some payments. As with imports, verifica- tion is on an ex post basis —that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is US$500 a year, and for business travel, US$5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets are to be made in naira. Hotels are allowed to accept settle- ment of hotel bills and incidental expenses in for- eign currency from travelers to Nigeria who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. Remittances abroad by expatri- ate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers subject to documentation requirements. Final balance ap- plications involving the transfer of accumulated sav- ings are considered subject to the approved guide- lines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. irThe following items are exempted from the inspection re- quirement: gold; precious stones; objects of art; explosives and pyrotechnic products; ammunition; implements of war; live ani- mals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or tinned fru i ts and vegetables; scrap metals; household and personal effects, including used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and refined petroleum products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 NIGERIA The exportation of naira in excess of N 50 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or that have been used) in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of beans, cassava, maize, rice, yam tubers, products derived from these five, and exports of all imported food items are prohibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corpo- ration and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector ex- ports may be sold freely in the IFEM only to the receiving bank or retained in Domiciliary Accounts; all previous requirements for surrender to the Cen- tral Bank were abolished, with effect from Septem- ber 29, 1986. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes only, foreign currency im- ports of the equivalent of US$5,000 and more must be declared. The importation of naira in excess of the maximum N 50, which is intended to assist residents to settle expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria, is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are ap- proved by the Federal Ministry of Finance subject to satisfactory documentation, and transfers are effected through the IFEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is re- quired from the Ministry of Finance for any individ- ual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval by the Ministry of Fi- nance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any non- resident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned un- der (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, li- censed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or over- drafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization De- cree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, and January 1977. Nonresidents intend- ing to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consid- eration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Rein- vestment of remittable dividends is allowed without the requirement of matching capital import. How- ever, the granting of approved status for such in- vestment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved sta- tus is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an inte- gral part of the approved investment project. Fur- thermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are in- vested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned com- panies and banks operating in Nigeria must be in- corporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee (IDCC) deals with all matters relat- ing to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promo- tion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through the IFEM are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 355 documentation requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the IFEM. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt in- struments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commer- cial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instruments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt conversion provi- sions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/ debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign ex- change used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange pur- chases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are: (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) con- version for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and deter- mines eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are: (1) in- terest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be repatriated for a minimum period of five years from the date of re- lease of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/dividends are made or paid, whichever is later; and (2) any capital pro- ceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the in- vestment made under the program may not be re- patriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective investment of the proceeds; repatriation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed, without special permission, to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 9. The two-tier foreign exchange market with separate auction and interbank markets was replaced by a unified exchange market. The new exchange market consists of an interbank foreign exchange market and a daily allocation of foreign exchange to this market by the Central Bank at the rate determined by the Central Bank and foreign exchange bureaus. The applicable exchange rate, or central rate, would be determined by the Central Bank based on quotations of the commercial banks on that day. Imports and Import Payments June 8. Commercial vehicles, trucks and buses, and spare parts were exempted from customs tariffs. Exports and Export Proceeds February 16. Exports of the following items were prohibited: beans, cassava, maize, rice, yam tubers, products derived from these five products, and all imported food items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a cur- rency index reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 14 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The ex- change rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations (±2 .25 percent) around the central value for the index. The weights of the index are, in principle, based on Norway's exports of processed goods to each of the countries whose currencies are included, also taking into account competitive rela- tions with third countries. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is quoted daily, together with those of 18 other currencies, on the basis of the market rates. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar1 were NKr 6.6040 and NKr 6.6260, respectively, per US$1. According to the Norwegian foreign exchange regulations, a forward contract includes ordinary forward transactions, options, currency futures, and currency swaps with or without exchange of principal. An interest rate contract involves the ex- change on a future day of interest rate terms in one and the same currency. Interest rate swaps, options, futures, and the like fall within this category. Resi- dents may without permission enter into forward and interest rate contracts involving Norwegian kroner in order to protect incomes, expenditures, assets, or debt in foreign currency against currency risk. Such contracts may be entered into with Nor- wegian foreign exchange banks, whereas a contract with a foreign bank and a contract between com- panies belonging to the same group require a li- cense. Forward and interest rate contracts not in- volving Norwegian kroner may be entered into with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and foreign banks without permission. Residents are allowed to open accounts denomi- nated in Norwegian kroner with foreign banks sub- ject to a license. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. 1 Quotation on the Foreign Exchange at noon. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Customs in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Most current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through authorized banks in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Bank of Nor- way. Authority to conduct most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks, which re- port such payments to the Bank of Norway. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any coun- try, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Nor- way of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to resi- dents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permit- ted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresi- dents, subject to the regulations on such accounts (see section on Capital, below).2 Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import li- cense, but all imports from South Africa and Namibia are prohibited. Certain textiles and gar- ments are subject to import licensing for sur- veillance purposes. Following Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on 2Residents with both income and expenditures in foreign cur- rencies may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without a license from the Bank of Norway. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 357 July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements. In this connec- tion, Norway has concluded bilateral agreements with 18 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into under the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those that Norway had under the pre- vious MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, there are licensing requirements for a few industrial import items from the Republic of Korea, for certain state-trading countries, and for some additional products from Taiwan Province of China. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are re- stricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and sec- ondhand ships and certain categories of fishing ves- sels may be imported freely, but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regulations regarding payments in advance of deliv- ery. The import of radio equipment and radio con- trol equipment is subject to approval by the Direc- torate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, fishing gear made of textile materials, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. There are no limits on the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Nor- way may take up to NKr 5,000 in Norwegian bank notes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addi- tion, export any foreign bank notes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports to South Africa and Namibia, however, are prohibited. Ex- ports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declara- tion or export license; for arms and ammunition this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, NKr 1,000. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers in connection with payment for real property and direct investment in limited com- panies are subject to a reporting requirement. Other forms of inward direct investment in Norway are subject to a license, but such licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Norway. Nonresident portfolio investments in Norwegian shares and do- mestic listed bonds with a maturity of 12 months or more are free. Outward transfers of capital as direct investments require individual licenses. Residents are free to purchase foreign listed shares and share units in foreign mutual funds/unit trusts as portfolio investments. Purchases by residents of nonquoted shares in foreign countries are subject to a license for statisti- cal purposes. Norwegian citizens are allowed to purchase foreign bonds up to a limit of NKr 1 million a person and NKr 5 million a firm, subject to a license from the Bank of Norway. Residents may, upon application, transfer capital abroad to pur- chase real estate for recreation or business purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Transfers relating to family loans require a license from the Bank of Norway. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other autho- rized investments, must be surrendered. Nor- wegian foreign exchange banks, insurance com- panies, and stock brokers may open accounts with foreign banks without special permission. Other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 NORWAY Norwegian firms' accounts with foreign banks re- quire a license from the Bank of Norway. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally. The grant- ing of loans, credits, or guarantees to and invest- ments in South Africa and Namibia, however, are prohibited. There are no nominal limits on authorized banks' borrowing abroad, but authorized banks and larger financial institutions have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency at the end of the day within margins varying according to the size of total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the Ministry of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. All other inward transfers of capital by nonbank residents require approval by the Bank of Norway. Residents are allowed to incur or provide commercial and financial guarantee obligations abroad without permission from the Bank of Nor- way, provided that such guarantees cover licensed transactions or transactions for which a license is not required. With the exception of loans to financial and municipal enterprises, new long-term foreign borrowing by Norwegian commercial enterprises from Norwegian authorized banks does not require a license from the Bank of Norway. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 percent. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 8. Residents were allowed to engage in forward contracts involving Norwegian kroner to hedge against fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates affecting assets and liabilities denomi- nated in foreign currencies. The underlying ar- rangement must be authorized or not subject to a license. Contracts with parties other than autho- rized Norwegian banks and with nonresidents re- quire a license. Residents were allowed to open accounts denominated in Norwegian kroner with foreign banks subject to a license. Imports and Import Payments December 8. The restrictions on periods with re- spect to payments for imports were abolished. The licensing requirement on leasing of machinery and equipment was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds December 8. The restrictions on periods with re- spect to receipts from exports were abolished. Capital May 9. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase bonds denominated in Norwegian kroner quoted and registered in Norway and carrying a maturity of at least one year, provided that such purchases were made through authorized Norwegian brokers. The new rules would also apply to shares in Norwegian bond funds. June 14. Residents were allowed to incur or provide commercial and financial guarantee obliga- tions abroad without permission from the Bank of Norway, provided that such guarantees covered li- censed transactions or transactions for which no license was required. June 30. Residents were allowed to acquire quoted and nonquoted shares of foreign collective invest- ment funds without permission from the Bank of Norway, provided that such transactions were con- ducted through authorized Norwegian brokers. December 7. Nonresidents were allowed to issue bonds denominated in Norwegian kroner in Nor- way subject to a license. Bonds issued by nonresi- dents would have to be conducted through autho- rized Norwegian brokers. Residents were allowed to purchase and sell bonds issued by licensed nonresi- dents without further permission. December 8. Residents were allowed to acquire foreign nonquoted shares in low-taxation countries subject to a license. Nonresidents were allowed to acquire fixed property in Norway without a license. All companies except commercial banks, savings banks, municipal companies, and companies guar- anteed by the local or central governments were allowed to raise foreign currency loans to finance their own operations or the operations of affiliated companies. Loans from lenders that do not have special permission from the Bank of Norway would still be subject to a license. Individuals were allowed to obtain foreign cur- rency loans abroad for the purpose of financing business activities subject to a license. Contracts of loans in Norwegian kroner between nonresidents and residents were made possible ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 359 subject to a license. Applications for such loans would be treated in the same way as applications for foreign currency loans. Norwegian insurance companies were allowed to engage in endowment insurance contracts with nonresidents without a license. Legal entities were allowed to engage in financial leasing contracts in foreign currencies with Nor- wegian financial institutions without permission from the Bank of Norway. Leasing contracts with foreign financial institutions would be subject to a license, but applications would be treated liberally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.6008. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1989, the rates were RO 1 = US$2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 = US$2.5974 (sell- ing), respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19,1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the im- portation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addition, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are pro- hibited from importing such products as long as the domestic refinery is deemed by Oman to be produc- ing the specified products in quantities that satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for autho- rized imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, ank exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of short- age in Oman. All other commodities may be ex- ported freely. No requirements are attached to re- ceipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency in- volved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior ap- proval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in June 1983, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus- try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ven- tures are offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions; the Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferen- tial interest rates for project financing in the petro- leum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; and assistance in preinvestment research can also be given. Foreign investment is not permitted in trade and services, and foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufacturing projects. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 361 any form without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 29, 1989, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 21.4200 and PRs 21.5271, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 21.4200 and PRs 22.0626 per US$1, respectively; the buying and selling rates for- ward up to 12 months were PRs 20.7774 and PRs 22.5981 per US$1, respectively. All foreign ex- change transactions with the public must be con- ducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.50 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, ei- ther spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward con- tracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover in respect of private for- eign currency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as foreign currency loans under the pay-as-you- earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and interna- tional markets. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans for working capital requirements is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the inter- est rate payable on the loan. Since August 1, 1985, Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificates (FEBC) have been able to be purchased in foreign exchange by foreigners and Pakistanis. Denominated in Pakistan rupees, FEBCs can be freely brought into and taken out of the country, and can be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in foreign exchange at the exchange rate prevail- ing at the time of the encashment. On December 29, 1989, the certificates were quoted at a premium of 5.15 percent. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for issuing licenses and permits, as well as for implementing import and export pol- icies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con- ducted through various state-trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified coun- tries are channeled through special accounts. Let- ters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in nonconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po- land, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are maintained in nonconvertible U.S. dollars. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 363 Payments to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the re- spective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU, other than the Islamic Republic of Iran (i.e., Bangla- desh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka), in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their prod- ucts) are effected through the ACU in Asian Mone- tary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such trans- actions. No exchange control is exercised over trans- actions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident outside Pakistan are designated as nonresi- dent accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresi- dents without the prior approval of the State Bank in cases where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking chan- nels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresi- dent accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open foreign currency accounts may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds three years; thereafter, the account must be closed and the 1 Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of indi- viduals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresi- dent rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the foreign currency accounts facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least US$10 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments The 1989/90 Import Policy Order (IPO) outlines the regulations that apply to imports. The IPO di- vides imports into two categories: prohibited and negative list imports, and restricted imports. All items that do not appear either on the prohibited/ negative lists or restricted lists are freely import- able. The prohibited and negative lists in principle consist of items banned for religious, security, or luxury consumption reasons; capital and consumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; intermediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and consumer goods that are banned for protective reasons; and goods that are banned in accordance with international agreements.2 The restricted list of imports consists of five cate- gories: (1) 16 items or categories of goods importable only by the public sector; (2) 4 items or categories of goods importable only by industrial consumers; (3) 30 items or categories of goods importable, sub- ject to specified requirements, such as a permit by a public sector agency or fulfillment of technical spec- ifications; (4) 52 items or categories of goods import- able only from specified sources under credits, bar- ter trade, loans, or the U.S. PL. 480 program; and (5) 3 specified items subject to quantitative restric- tion. Imports of some items on the negative list are permitted under certain circumstances, principally by export industries, public sector agencies, or un- der the personal baggage scheme. All imports require a license, except goods im- ported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Im- ports and Exports.3 Generally, licenses remain valid 2Some currently prohibited imports fall outside of these cate- gories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and they do not fit into the category of goods banned for re- ligious, security, or luxury consumption reasons). 3Licensing restrictions apply only to arms and ammunitions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 364 PAKISTAN for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufactured, licenses can be obtained with a va- lidity period of up to 24 months. Licenses for im- ports are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import 571 specified items or categories of goods directly from India. (2) Special provisions exist for the importation by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. (3) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 25,000 or more must be members of approved trade organiza- tions. (4) The maximum c. & f. values for which licenses for the import of machinery and millwork can be issued against various sources of financing to different categories are (a) up to PRs 16 million for commercial importers; (b) up to PRs 80 million for new units or expansion of existing units that are likely to cost less than PRs 1,000 million and not falling within the specified list of industries (i.e., those that are permitted to be set up without sanc- tion of any government agency). In the case of units falling within a specified list of industries, the limit of PRs 80 million applies, subject to the condition that such units are duly sanctioned by the compe- tent authority; (c) up to PRs 16 million for balancing modernization and replacement of existing units, excluding the textile industry; and (d) from PRs 8 million to PRs 32 million for balancing, moderniza- tion, and replacement of a textile unit, depending on the type and capacity of the machinery. Procure- ment of plant and equipment of higher value not falling under a specified list of industries and hav- ing less than 50 percent foreign equity is effected by the financing institutions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Except for imports of books, journals, periodicals, and magazines, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports, as follows: (1) in the case of licenses issued against cash, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the registration of the license with the State Bank, fail- ing which the license will be deemed to have ex- pired. (The time limit of 180 days may be curtailed in the case of import licenses for items notified by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports); (2) in the case of licenses issued against loans or credits, let- ters of credit must be established within 180 days of the date of issue of the license except as provided for in Clause V of paragraph 2.7 of the Import Policy Order (IPO). For imports under barter, the letters of credit must be opened within such period as may be specified in the relevant public notice issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports; and (3) in the case of imports under tied loans or credits, which require the contracts to be approved by the Government of Pakistan, the importer must submit the contract within 120 days from the date of issue of the license and must open a letter of credit within 60 days from the date of final approval of the contract, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. Oil and natural gas exploration and pro- ducing companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petro- leum products within the validity period of the un- derlying license. Remittances are not normally per- mitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases—e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers —the State Bank may authorize ad- vance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remit- tances, without prior approval of the State Bank, for imports of books, magazines, and journals by com- mercial importers. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Africa. With specified exceptions,4 the State Bank requires banks to take minimum margins against letters of credit for certain imports, ranging from 25 percent to 35 percent. Import surcharges at the rate of 7 percent ad valorem and Iqra surcharges at the rate of 5 percent ad valorem are levied on the c . i .f. value of imports. A number of items, including medicine, books, fer- tilizer, duty-free baggage, kerosene, light diesel, and fuel oil are exempted from the surcharges. The elements of surcharges paid on imported raw mate- rials for manufactures of export goods are also in- cluded in the duty drawback paid on such exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Af- rica. Authorized dealers may sell, exchange, or make remittances in accordance with the regula- tions. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess 4The list consists mostly of raw materials and capital goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 365 of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that ac- corded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max- imum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton and rice, for which the maximum is 1 per- cent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other textile made-ups, carpets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33Vs percent. The remittance of dividends declared out of cur- rent profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Govern- ment's approval. With the approval of the State Bank, profits of branches of foreign companies and banks may be remitted to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to US$1,000 a person every two years for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;5 this allocation can be used in installments. In addition to this quota, each traveler is allowed US$50 a trip. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and spon- sored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Student maintenance and book allowances for study abroad are up to US$8,200 a year. Student allowances can be drawn through authorized dealers without requiring state bank approval. Sep- arate allowances, denominated in pounds sterling, apply to studies in the United Kingdom. Al- lowances for professional training abroad range from US$750 a month for junior executives to US$1,200 a month for senior executives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earn- ings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the pur- chase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$200 a day up to US$6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers can settle credit card 5The allowances for travel to India and Bangladesh are less; there is no such allowance for travel to Afghanistan. charges up to US$100 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FEBCs. Foreigners leaving Pakistan within six months from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a maximum of US$2,000 a family) and PRs 100 a per- son in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out any amount of Afghan currency. Nationals working abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for one year the foreign ex- change they brought in. When leaving Pakistan within one year from the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign ex- change (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a max- imum of US$2,000 a family). Larger amounts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the cur- rency notes were declared on entry. Residents trav- eling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and traveler's checks sold by authorized banks under general au- thority delegated to them or under permission is- sued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or US$750 a month, whichever is larger. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.6 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (such as private sector exports of Basmati rice and cotton). The CECP is responsible for the export of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is also exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; non-Basmati rice is exported through the RECP, although exports of Basmati rice are allowed by the private sector under brand names in pack- ings of up to 20 kilograms; cement is exported Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (excluding iron and steel manufactured goods), edible oils, grains, dairy products, animal fats, beef, mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cowhides and calfhides, wheat bran, wheat straw, and charcoal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 PAKISTAN through the State Cement Corporation. Chemical fertilizers can also be exported by private sector units. The State Bank requires a declaration by the ex- porter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the pre- scribed time except for goods manufactured in the export-processing zones. The authorized dealer cer- tifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Export- ers may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank', grant deferred payment terms. The sur- render of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items7 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,8 or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the Scheme. A rebate of 55 percent is available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering prod- ucts, garments, and leather, leather products, tex- tile products, hand-knotted carpet, and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent. Industrial units estab- lished under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, cotton yarn, oilcakes, molasses, semi- tanned hides and skins, buffalos and buffalo calves, sheep and goats, crushed bones, private sector ex- ports of Basmati rice, and onyx blocks. The export of cows and calves is banned. Exporters who are mem- bers of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promo- tion and related costs. 7The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feedstuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; fertilizer crude; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared form. 8Under specified conditions authorized dealers may grant con- cessional finance without State Bank approval and without an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange de- rived from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and PRs 5 in coins. There is no limitation on the import of other cur- rency notes and coins. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are sub- ject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditures will ordinarily be met from local eq- uity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restric- tion to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as in- vestment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment un- der (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These re- patriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment pro- ject, or to capital invested in Pakistan before Sep- tember 1,1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationaliza- tion of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may regis- ter their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions can be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the pur- pose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents requires ap- proval by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 367 transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals tem- porarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities, in favor of nonresident Pakistanis, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securities held by nonresident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against payments abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na- tional Investment Trust, subject to certain stipula- tions. General permission has been granted to pub- lic limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to transfer shares to nonresident Pakistanis, provided (1) payment is made by remittance of foreign currency from abroad; (2) the shares are registered at the address in Pakistan of the buyer; and (3) the buyer gives an undertaking that he will not apply for remittance of dividend or sale proceeds of the share. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved gov- ernment securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan can under- write share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan in association with the Investment Corpo- ration of Pakistan, subject to the stipulation that the total value of shares so underwritten by them in each issue does not exceed 10 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription. The foreign banks may also underwrite public issues of participation term certificates, term finance certifi- cates, and "modaraba" certificates, provided that where terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, the restriction of 10 percent of the total capital offered to the general public would also apply. Pakistani nationals resident abroad have permis- sion to invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or by debiting their foreign currency accounts in Pakistan; divi- dends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, maybe transferred abroad, provided that these securities were held for no less than one year. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be re- patriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is normally not granted. However, the import of gold is permitted under certain conditions. Under a special scheme, jewelry manufacturers are allowed to import gold for the purpose of manufacturing jewelry for ex- port. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permit- ted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion, whether inside or outside Pakistan. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee against the U.S. dollar was adjusted fre- quently. On December 29, 1989, the spot and for- ward rates at which the State Bank transacted with authorized dealers were as follows: (In Pakistan rupees) Buying Spot and forward up to 6 months 21.4200 Forward up to 12 months 20.7774 Selling Forward up to 6 months 22.0626 Forward up to 12 months 22.5981 Spot 21.5271 The annual fees charged by the State Bank of Pakistan for the absorption of the exchange risk on private sector suppliers' credits, guaranteed loans, and PAYE loans were adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1989, the annual fees were as follows: deutsche mark, 4.94 percent; Japanese yen, 6.3 percent; pounds sterling, 3 percent; Swiss francs, 5.75 percent; and U.S. dollars, 3.88 percent. April 6. It was made optional for private sector borrowers to avail themselves of the exchange risk coverage facility either from the date of opening letters of credit or from the date of disbursement. Prescription of Currency January 15. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Republic of China Trade Agreement (Barter No. 13) dated July 12,1984 was extended up to June 30,1989 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1989 for completing shipments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 PAKISTAN February 12. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Republic of China Trade Agreement (Barter No. 13) was extended up to March 31, 1990 for opening of letters of credit and up to June 30,1990 for complet- ing shipments. March 29. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Trade Agreement (Barter No. 16) dated January 20, 1987 was extended up to December 31, 1989 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1990 for completing shipments. April 16. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Trade Agreement (Barter No. 16) was extended up to January 1, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to April 30, 1990 for completing shipments. May 11. The validity of the Pakistan-Hungary Trade Agreement (Barter Protocol No. 8) dated July 10, 1987 was extended up to June 30, 1991 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1991 for completing shipments. May 30. The validity of the Pakistan-Hungary Trade Agreement (Barter No. 8) was extended to June 30, 1991 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1991 for completing shipments. May 30. The validity of the TCP/Kemira (Barter No. 5) Trade Agreement dated March 28, 1988 was extended up to December 31, 1989 for opening let- ters of credit and up to March 31, 1990 for complet- ing shipments. June 18. The validity of the Pakistan-Czech- oslovakia Trade Agreement (Barter No. 22) was ex- tended to December 31, 1989 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1990 for completing shipments. June 28. The validity of the TCP/Sukab (Barter No. 5) Trade Agreement dated March 15, 1977 was extended up to September 1989 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1989 for complet- ing shipments. June 30. The validity of the Pakistan- Czechoslovakia Trade Agreement (Barter Agree- ment No. 22) was extended up to December 31,1989 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1990 for completing shipments. August 1. The validity of the Pakistan-U.S.S.R. Trade Agreement (Barter No. 23) dated Decem- ber 29, 1987 was extended up to March 31, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to June 30,1990 for completing shipments. August 31. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Trade Agreement (Barter No. 17) dated October 20, 1988 was extended up to December 31, 1989 for opening of letters of credit and up to March 31,1990 for completing shipments. November 12. The validity of the Pakistan- Czechoslovakia Trade Agreement (Barter Agree- ment No. 22) was extended to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1990 for completing shipments. December 6. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Trade Agreement (Barter No. 5) dated March 15,1987 was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1990 for completing shipments. December 12. The validity of the Pakistan-Romania Trade Agreement dated July 7, 1987 was extended up to December 31,1989 for opening letters of credit and completing shipments. December 23. The validity of the Pakistan-Romania Trade Agreement dated July 7, 1987 was extended up to March 31, 1990 for completing shipments. December 27. The validity of the TCP/Kemira Com- modity Exchange Arrangement dated March 28, 1988 was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1990 for completing shipments. December 31. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Arrangement dated October 17, 1988 was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30,1990 for completing shipments. December 31. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Trade Agreement (Barter No. 17) dated October 20, 1988 was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1990 for completing shipments. December 31. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Trade Agreement (Barter No. 15) dated April 16, 1983 was extended up to June 30, 1990 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1990 for completing shipments. Nonresident Accounts April 16. Nonresidents were permitted to main- tain accounts jointly with residents. These accounts were to be treated as nonresident accounts irrespec- tive of whether the accounts were to be operated solely or jointly by the residents. April 16. Checks drawn for self or in favor of dependent residents in Pakistan for maintenance were subject to a monthly ceiling of PRs 5,000. Imports and Import Payments May 14. For re-export of imported goods, certifi- cates of advance payment or irrevocable sight letters of credit would be issued only in those cases where the payment had been received or the letter of credit had provided for payment in convertible foreign exchange and not under any barter or special pay- ment arrangement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 369 July 1. Under the 1989/90 IPO, the number of items on the negative and restricted lists was re- duced, and the value ceilings on imports of machin- ery and millwork against cash licenses and imports by actual users were raised. Seventy items were removed from the negative list (classified in accor- dance with the new Harmonized Commodity Sys- tem (HCS) code introduced under the 1988/89 IPO), leaving 214 items on the list. Twenty items were removed from the restricted list, reducing the list to 105 items. The import license fee was raised by 1 percent, to 5 percent of the value of the license. October 4. Industrial consumers and construction organizations were allowed to import second-hand or reconditioned machinery without any prior ap- proval of the Government, provided that they did not fall in the following categories of investments: projects above PRs 1 billion; projects included in the list of specified industries; and projects where for- eign equity is 50 percent and above. Payments for Invisibles January 18. The maximum amount of tuition fee allowed to be remitted to an educational institution abroad (£6,178 a year to the United Kingdom and US$9,500 a year to other countries) was lifted. April 18. The ceilings on remittances abroad for advertisement fees in newspaper and magazines by nonexporters; for membership fees for educational, technical, professional, and scientific institutions; for membership fees of bona fide social clubs; and for fees for taking part in examinations held in Pakistan by I.C.W.A. London Institute of Bankers were raised to US$250 from PRs 2,000, to US$250 from PRs 2,000, to US$50 from PRs 300, and to US$150 from PRs 1,000, respectively. July 20. Authorized dealers were allowed to con- vert into foreign exchange the unspent amount up to PRs 500 left with foreign tourists out of the pro- ceeds of foreign exchange encashed by them in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Capital May 29. The private sector was allowed to export Basmati rice in bags of up to 25 kilograms, subject to minimum export prices. July 1. Under the 1989/90 EPO, a number of mea- sures, such as the liberalization of export of cheese, wild boar and its skins, and pepper in crushed/ powdered form were introduced. An open bond system was introduced for certain manufacturing exports. The exemption from the income tax of 75 percent of export earnings was extended to leather products, textile products, hand-knotted carpets, and rugs. January 15. Transfers of Pakistan securities be- tween two nonresidents would require permission from the Government if the original investment in Pakistan required government approval. Gold November 15. Pakistan citizens coming to Pakistan from abroad were allowed to import up to 100 troy ounces of gold a person on each visit. Similarly, individuals, firms, or companies, who were resi- dents of Pakistan, were allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is repre- sented by balboa coins and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26,1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institu- tion of the Panamanian Government. The Price Reg- ulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodities that com- pete with national production and on certain ex- ports. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry de- termines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements; the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, determines the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Import quotas are maintained on some 20 prod- ucts, including oil, timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Some of these are not licensed. Import licens- ing applies to some products subject to quotas and to imports of various foodstuffs. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import duty, a tax of 7.5 percent of the f.o.b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified phar- maceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books and certain agricultural inputs are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 percent calculated on the sum of the c . i .f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as foodstuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceuti- cal products, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, sugar, bananas, co- conuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of certain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are pro- hibited. Certain nontraditional exports (with a mini- mum of 20 percent value added in Panama) are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A significant number of foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. A banking holiday was de- clared on March 4,1988, and restrictions were main- tained on demand and savings deposits with- drawals and on interbank deposit balances after the reopening of banks on May 9, 1988. Although pro- gressively eased, restrictions on savings deposits and interbank balances were in effect at the end of 1989. The restrictions on demand deposits were eliminated on January 1, 1989. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 371 may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry car- ried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the mone- tary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments October 1. The customs tariff rates on some 130 items were reduced to 2.5 percent from an average of 27.5 percent. Capital January 1. The restrictions on withdrawals of de- mand deposits were lifted. October 1. New incentives for foreign investment processing zones were announced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major trading partners. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.1641 and US$1.1625, respectively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the current forward exchange market reg- ulations, exporters and importers can hedge their exchange rate risks arising from exports or imports by selling foreign exchange forward to or buying foreign exchange forward from the commercial banks. The commercial banks in turn hedge their forward positions with firms through forward deals with the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Under this arrangement, the Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the daily forward rates both for its own transactions with banks and for banks' transactions with firms. Major mineral exporters use other means of hedg- ing their exchange rate risks, and the forward mar- ket is thus usually dominated by importers. The Bank of Papua New Guinea therefore normally has a net forward liability to the commercial banks, which covers the banks' net forward liability to firms. Under the current arrangement, the forward market is effectively separated from the spot mar- ket. The commercial banks are permitted to hedge their forward purchases and sales in the normal manner through their balance sheets. Forward rates do not therefore reflect hedging costs, that is, inter- est rate differentials between Papua New Guinea and other countries. The Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the forward rates without regard to interest rates and assumes all the risks of the for- ward contracts. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed autho- rized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of For- eign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments, which are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea must be met by payments in foreign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds cred- ited to such accounts may be withdrawn without further formality. Nonresidents must have approval to maintain foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are re- stricted for health, security, or protective reasons. Imports of a number of items, including canned meat, sugar, pork, chicken and hens, fowls, and certain fresh fruits and vegetables, are prohibited for protective purposes. A number of items, includ- ing laundry bar soap, plywood, and specified fruits and vegetables (e.g., broccoli, cauliflower, garlic, and celery), are subject to import quotas and al- lowed to be imported through specified ports of entry; temperate fruits and onions are subject to import quotas on a nationwide basis. Other items, including poultry other than chicken, hens, and fowls, and reconstituted wood products, are subject to licensing; these licenses are issued on a quarterly basis. Quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 373 extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for three- year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with purchases of domestically pro- duced goods. Authorized dealers have the authority to approve applications for import transactions that are not sub- ject to quotas or licensing requirements without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The tariff regime consists of the following: (1) essential items, including food staples (rice, and tinned fish and tinned meat other than those produced domes- tically) and medical and educational supplies, are duty free; (2) 5-9 percent for basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials; (3) 25- 30 percent for intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic substitutes; and (4) 50- 75 percent for luxury goods, including television sets, jewelry, cosmetics, cameras, video recorders, and nonessential food and beverage items. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation is produced. The remittance overseas of life insur- ance premiums on new policies written after De- cember 31, 1975 in the names of permanent resi- dents covering strictly the death risk element is permitted with the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The remittance of endowment as- surance premiums is prohibited. Applications for foreign exchange for tourist travel in excess of the equivalent of K 8,000 an adult and K 3,000 a minor a year and K 4,000 for each business trip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration, and they are approved in cases of bona fide need. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency that they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on condi- tion that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including passengers' personal effects. Ex- port licenses are required for specified goods (e.g., logs, pearls, fisheries and marine products, wood chips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Exports of most unprocessed products are sub- ject to export levies. There is a 10 percent export tax on all logs and timber,2 and, since June 1989, a ban has been applied on the export of more valuable species of timber in log form. Exports of fish are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea or for its reten- tion. (Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea.) Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital (i.e., proceeds from liquidation of direct invest- ments) are normally allowed. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for the ac- quisition and disposal of foreign securities by per- manent residents. When an investment is for port- folio reasons, the amount that may be invested is limited to K 15,000 a person a year. (Children under the age of 18 are not eligible to receive this al- lowance.) Investment may only take the form of marketable securities and not of cash deposits. Ap- provals carry the condition that income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments held and income received must be submitted annually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Portfolio investments by companies are not permitted. Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an au- thorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds 2The export tax on logs and timber took effect on January 1, 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 PAPUA NEW GUINEA K 10,000 in any calendar year. Residents may bor- row, with the approval of the Central Bank, on rea- sonable terms, and external obligations may be ser- viced within an annual allowance of K 15,000; that is, interest and amortization payments must not exceed K 15,000 a year. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In some cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in banking and insurance are also sub- ject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. Approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the ac- knowledgment of indebtedness, partly so that the right to receive a payment may be conferred on a nonresident and partly to ensure that the terms are reasonable. In practice, the requirement that off- shore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Guinea may not exceed the debt/equity ratio of 3:1 is normally strictly enforced, except for com- panies involved in mining and oil exploration ac- tivities or in cases where sound economic reasons exist. Commercial banks may undertake offshore borrowing for on-lending to exporters, provided that assumption of exchange risk is not involved. A minimum moratorium period of one year is re- quired for repayments on foreign debt following loan disbursement. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea were de- regulated, with effect from January 1, 1987, when royalties and withholding tax payable on sales of alluvial gold were removed and replaced with a 5 percent ad valorem export tax. Exports and im- ports of gold by individuals are not permitted. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The basic customs tariff rate was raised from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent during 1989, and it was raised to 9 percent on January 1, 1990. Imports of poultry other than chicken were no longer subject to quotas, but were made subject to licensing. December 15. It was announced that effective Jan- uary 1, 1990, the duties on a range of agricultural and fishery products and raw materials for the man- ufacturing industries would be reduced from the current level of 8.5 percent to 5 percent. It was announced that effective January 1, 1990, the customs tariff on spirits would be raised from K 4 a litre to K19 a litre and that on wines would be raised from K 1 a litre to K 4 a litre. Payments for Invisibles December 1. It was announced that effective Jan- uary 1, 1990, the departure tax would be raised to K 12 from K 10. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. The export of more valuable species of timber in log form was banned. December 1. It was announced that effective Jan- uary 1, 1990, the export tax on fish would be raised to 10 percent from 5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and ex- change rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank intervenes when necessary to smooth out undesirable fluctua- tions, it does not interfere with any underlying mar- ket trends. Private and public sector transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, ser- vices, and private capital transactions are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses. On December 29, 1989, the aver- age rate prevailing in this market was about Gl,218 per US$1. Public debt-service payments and pay- ments for government services are channeled through the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the day the transactions are effected. A tax of 0.5 percent is levied by the Central Bank on sales of foreign exchange to the Government for the payment of imports of goods and services. Au- thorized commercial banks charge a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign exchange to im- porters, the proceeds of which are then transferred to the Central Bank. For operations channeled through the multilateral clearing arrangements of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA), banks charge a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign exchange to the Central Bank and pay a commission of 0.5 percent on purchases of foreign exchange. Capital inflows relating to projects ap- proved under Decree Law No. 19/89 on Investment Incentives for Economic Development are exempt from the above charges. The commercial banks are not required to trans- fer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank but maintain a daily net position of no more than US$500,000. They are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. Under a forward cover arrangement against ex- change rate risk, the Central Bank undertakes to sell to authorized commercial banks, within a 240-day period, foreign exchange purchased from them at the rate prevailing on the date of the purchase trans- action, subject to a commission at an annual rate of 8 percent. A similar arrangement is available to ex- porters of soybeans and cotton, subject to a com- mission at the annual rate of 4 percent.1 Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, together with the Superin- tendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transac- tions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authori- zation. These include table wine in bulk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and po- tatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest sea- sons. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products may be made only through the national petroleum company, PETROPAR.2 All importers are required to be registered at the Central Bank. Taxes ranging from 3 percent to 70 percent are levied on most imports depending on the customs specifications, which are based on the Brussels No- menclature. Taxes are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from tariffs: imports for religious, charita- ble, cultural, or educational purposes; imports for the Government; furniture acquired through inheri- tance; all imports exempted according to interna- tional treaties; and the accompanied baggage of in- ternational passengers or nationals returning to establish residence in Paraguay. Also exempted are agricultural and industrial machinery and equip- ment imported through the Spanish free zone in irThe arrangement was abolished, effective February 28, 1990. 2Effective January 19,1990, imports of certain petroleum prod- ucts, including LPG and aviation fuel, were liberalized. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 PARAGUAY Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodi- cals; and imports under Decree Law No. 19/89. All commodities originating from neighboring coun- tries are subject to a lower 10 percent tariff on the c.i.f. value. Goods used as inputs in the tourist sector are subject to a 7 percent tariff on the c .i .f. value. Alcohol-powered automobiles, tractors, and motorcycles are subject to only 60 percent of the surcharge established for vehicles with equivalent specifications using other fuels. Imports of a number of commodities that might jeopardize national security, public order, or public health are prohibited. The Ministry of Finance is entitled to lift import restrictions on basic foodstuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic pro- duction shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or ex- change houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic cur- rency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, horses, wild animals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. Certain other exports re- quire prior authorization in order to ensure ade- quate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and others require a certificate issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture and Livestock. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents; the foreign exchange proceeds must be converted and surrendered at banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions at the exchange rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the bi- national entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender re- quirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free ex- change market. Under Decree Law No. 19/89, the Government grants exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges to proposed in- vestments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement February 27. A unified floating exchange rate sys- tem applicable to all current and capital transactions was introduced, and the system of minimum sur- render export prices was eliminated. April 28. A 10 percent income tax on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and a 30 per- cent withholding income tax on outward remit- tances of interest, royalties, rent, directors' fees, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents, unless such income originates in projects approved under Decree Law No. 19/89, were abolished. November 10. A temporary forward cover arrange- ment featuring an exchange rate guarantee was in- troduced, under which the Central Bank under- takes to sell, within a 240-day period, foreign exchange purchased from the authorized commer- cial banks at the rate prevailing on the day of the purchase transaction, subject to a commission at an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 377 annual rate of 8 percent. A similar arrangement is in operation for exporters, subject to a commission at an annual rate of 4 percent. Imports and Import Payments April 28. Capital goods imported for projects ap- proved under Decree Law 19/89 were exempted from customs tariffs. May 8. Taxes on all goods imported from neigh- boring countries —affecting about 40 percent of the total value of imports— were reduced to a uniform 10 percent, and a new regime was introduced for goods used as inputs in the tourist sector with a uniform tariff rate of 7 percent. Quantitative restric- tions on a number of products, including bicycles, motorcycles, fa ts and oils, powdered milk, sports shoes, and paints, were lifted. Exports and Export Proceeds February 27. Temporary export levies, ranging from 1 to 7 percent, were introduced, with proceeds earmarked for a special budgetary fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Inti. The exchange rate system consists of the following rates: (1) the controlled exchange rate (MUC); (2) the free market exchange rate for foreign bank notes deter- mined in the banking system; (3) the rate for foreign exchange retained by exporters (35 percent) in the form of Freely Disposable Foreign Exchange Certifi- cates (CLDs) applicable to eligible import and invis- ible payments; and (4) the free parallel market rate. In the MUC market, the exchange rate for the inti is pegged to the U.S. dollar and determined by the Central Reserve Bank. Since June 8, 1989, a crawling-peg system has been applied. On Decem- ber 29,1989, the MUC rate was II. 5,261.40 = US$1, and the average buying/selling rate in the free paral- lel market was I/. 12,940 = US$1. Exchange transac- tions may be conducted in 15 currencies other than the U.S. dollar on the basis of their exchange rates in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market.1 Exchange transactions taking place at the MUC and the free exchange market rates are as follows. The MUC exchange rate is applied to (1) 35 percent of surrendered export proceeds; (2) the payment of credits from the Fund for Nontraditional Exports (PENT) for up to 35 percent of the f .o .b value of the export; (3) the sale of foreign exchange to students abroad for installation and travel expenses; (4) the sale of foreign exchange to people of low income to travel abroad for medical treatment; (5) 72 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports;2 (6) all transactions effected by the petroleum companies; and (7) the servicing of lines of credit to the public sector. The most important exchange transactions effected through the free market exchange rate are (1) re- maining imports; (2) service payments other than public debt service; (3) remittances of profits by branches of international transportation enter- prises; (4) inward private capital flows (up to De- cember 29, 1990); (5) receipts of foreign exchange from reimbursements for prepaid freight charges on exports; (6) income from insurance claims; Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs for external trade transactions; for nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swed- ish kroner, and Venezuelan bolivares. 2On January 11, 1990, this percentage was reduced to 67 be- cause 44 categories of goods, principally capital goods, were made eligible for importation at the MUC exchange rate. (7) receipts from liquidation of foreign exchange insurance certificates issued before December 31, 1988; (8) capital contributions to legal entities; (9) receipts of foreign exchange from external trans- fer except those derived from exports or their prefi- nancing; and (10) foreign exchange received by par- astatals and private agencies in social welfare and cultural fields from International Technical Cooper- ation Institutions. Interest on foreign exchange re- ceived by financial institutions on their required reserves must also be sold to the Central Reserve Bank at the free exchange rate. All exchange transactions other than those effected through the parallel market must be con- ducted through the banking system. An exchange tax of 1 percent is levied on foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services, and on purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services. Commercial banks may charge a com- mission of 0.25 percent on transactions. Enterprises are not allowed to hold foreign ex- change balances abroad, with limited exceptions, and must sell foreign exchange to the banking sys- tem within ten working days of receipt. Export and loan proceeds of the public sector and loans ob- tained for the prefinancing of exports must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank. Exporters of nontraditional exports availing them- selves of subsidized PENT (nontransferable ex- change certificates) credits are eligible for 180-day PENT certificates against the surrender of foreign public exchange proceeds of preshipment and postshipment credits received from abroad, pro- vided that such foreign credits do not exceed 72 per- cent of the contemplated export value. Extensions of up to 360 additional days of the validity period of the certificates are permitted. PENT certificates remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank and bear interest at LIBOR, plus 5 percentage points for the duration of the foreign export financing; they are applied directly by the Central Reserve Bank toward the cancellation of part of the PENT credit to the exporter. Upon surrender of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues a second set of ex- change certificates for the direct cancellation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. The holding of bank accounts in foreign curren- cies in the Peruvian financial system is allowed, but the financial system may not extend credit based on these accounts. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 379 On November 25, 1989, the system of advance sales of forward exchange was introduced. Advance sales of foreign exchange take place through an auction conducted by the Central Reserve Bank, with a floor established by the Central Reserve Bank based on a premium over the current MUC ex- change rate. Foreign exchange may be delivered in 30, 60, or 90 days.3 Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Institute for Foreign Trade (ICE). Prior import licenses are issued by the ICE and are required only for goods imported at the MUC exchange rate, except medical and agri- cultural products. There also exists a list of goods (72 tariff lines, mainly consisting of foods tuffs, in- puts for agroindustry, pharmaceutical and petro- leum products, educational books, and public sec- tor imports) classified by ministry, requiring approval of the relevant ministry and eligible to be imported at the MUC exchange rate. In addition, prior approval by the Central Reserve Bank is re- quired for payments for nonfactor services. The Im- port Supervision Commission is the ultimate ad- ministrative authority that considers applications for prior import licenses that are not granted at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also ex- ercises general surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is em- powered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Commission. Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from resi- dents and nonresidents and sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the Committee of the External Debt. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebted- ness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPCs approval for re- newal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. More- over, as of January 1983, the enterprises must sub- mit their annual short-term borrowing programs to GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology (CONITE) su- pervises foreign direct investment in Peru and the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most pay- ments for invisibles require the approval of CONITE. Foreign Exchange Bank Certificates (FEBC) may be used for domestic investment purposes with the approval of CONITE. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions apply to 539 commodities out of the approximately 5,266 eight-digit items of the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NABANDINA). These commodities include agricultural products, footwear, textiles, and security-related materials. All imports, except those that do not exceed an annual value of US$2,000, require import licenses. Import licenses are required for imports from coun- tries of the Andean Pact only for statistical pur- poses, and the importer must be listed in the Na- tional Register of Importers. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the produc- tion of nontraditional exports are exempted from import duties, and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime.4 Milk powder and wheat may be imported only by the National Enter- prise for Input Marketing (ENCI); and crude petro- leum and petroleum derivatives, only by PE- TROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. Advance payments are not permitted except for capital goods financed with external funds and up to 20 percent of the f.o.b. import value. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 15 per- cent of the c . i .f. value of imports (in addition to the 3The system was eliminated on January 11, 1990. 4In 1989 imports under this regime amounted to US$47 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 PERU import duty); exempted from the value-added tax are agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors, aviation equipment and ships in excess of 1,000 tons, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic cen- timeters). A selective consumption tax (also in addi- tion to the import duty) is levied on luxury items, ranging from 15 percent to 100 percent of the c . i .f. value. The maximum import duty is 84 percent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate is 47 per- cent. In addition, many imports are subject to the following taxes: (1) a surcharge of 24 percent; (2) an additional import tax for the promotion of nontradi- tional exports of 1 percent of the c .i .f. value; (3) a maritime freight tax of 20 percent of the ocean freight charges; and (4) a 2 percent surcharge on the value (f .o .b .) of all imports, with the exception of food and medicines, for the benefit of the National Defense Fund. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported duty free. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all invisibles other than debt service must be made at the free market rate and are not subject to payments authorization. Remittances of foreign exchange for dividends, profits (includ- ing depreciation allowances), royalties and patent fees by enterprises operating in Peru are suspended until July 31, 1990; technical assistance fees are ex- cluded from this suspension. Dividends and royal- ties of petroleum and mineral companies and the servicing of medium- and long-term debt con- tracted after July 28, 1985, are excluded from the suspension. Deposits in national currency equiv- alent to the amortization and interest payments on medium- and long-term loans and other credits af- fected by the suspension is required to be made to the Central Reserve Bank on the dates that pay- ments fall due. With the permission of the Central Bank, Foreign Exchange Bank Certificates (FEBC) may be redeemed to make provisions for meeting certain debt-service obligations. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, that are exempted from the suspension require approval of CONITE and from the Central Bank or the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and a prior tax clearance. In accor- dance with Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, limited to 20 percent of the investment a year, although a higher percentage may be permit- ted for investments that generate substantial em- ployment, are situated in underdeveloped areas, or help to diversify exports.5 All payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign par- ent company or its affiliates. The maximum interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Foreign investment by petroleum and mining companies is subject to spe- cial contracts with the Peruvian Government. The sale of foreign exchange for business travel abroad, other than official business, is limited to US$220 a person a day of travel up to a maximum of US$4,400 a trip to North America and Europe; US$250 a person a day of travel, up to a maximum of US$5,000 a trip to Asia; and US$150 a person a day up to a maximum of US$3,000 a trip to other coun- tries. Expenditures on tourist travel abroad are lim- ited to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other currencies a person a calendar year and must be paid for through the parallel market. A tax of US$100 is levied on travel abroad.6 Approval by the Foreign Exchange Committee of the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for payments that have not been considered by the exchange regulations. Indicative limits on foreign exchange sales are established in some cases. The Central Reserve Bank, through its Foreign Exchange Committee, may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the specified limits in justified cases. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cotton, rubber, and mineral ores. Exports of gold have been prohibited since 1986. Export licenses are required for 87 other com- modities. The Banco Minero del Peru is the princi- pal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals produced by the public enterprises; since August 1985 PETROPERU has a mo- nopoly over exports of petroleum products. Exports 5Companies exporting at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Pact and mining companies are exempt from this limit. Effective January 1, 1990, the tax is US$30. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 381 of certain commodities specified by the ICE are sub- ject to prior license. Export proceeds as well as ex- port prefinancing loans must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within five working days of expected date of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, ex- ports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Upon surrendering their export proceeds, export- ers receive three types of foreign exchange certifi- cate denominated in U.S. dollars: (1) Foreign Ex- change Certificates for an amount equal to 45 percent of the f.o.b. value of the realized export, which may be converted into domestic currency at the MUC exchange rate and have a maturity period of 10 days; (2) Freely Disposable Foreign Exchange Certificates for an amount equal to 35 percent of the f .o .b. value of the realized export, which may be converted into domestic currency at the MUC ex- change rate prevailing on the day of conversion, have a maturity period of 180 days, are freely trans- ferable, and may be used to purchase an equivalent amount of foreign exchange to make payments for eligible imports and invisibles; and (3) Convertible Foreign Exchange Certificates, (CCs) for an amount equal to 20 percent of the realized export, which have a maturity period of 60 days, and may be de- posited in a foreign currency account in a commer- cial bank, officially providing for their redemption in foreign currency. Exporters of most nontraditional products are granted transferable tax credit certificates (cer- tificados de reintegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to between 15 and 35 percent of the f .o .b. value. An additional 10 percent is granted for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area.7 Exports of local handicrafts recognized as such by the ICE are eligi- ble for CERTEX benefits at a rate of 35 percent. CERTEX certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. Nontraditional products are also eligible for export credits through PENT. Some textile ex- ports to the United States are not eligible for either CERTEX or PENT. The Export Credit Insurance Com- pany of Peru (SECREX) administers an export credit guarantee program, and the Central Reserve Bank 7Exporters cannot receive CERTEX certificates for more than 35 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports, except in the case of fresh fruits, certain nontraditional textile products, and some sea products. (since December 1983) provides or arranges export finance for nontraditional exports. To be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional exports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enter- prises Exporting Nontraditional Products; each en- try in the list is valid for two years. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from most invisibles are sold in the free exchange market. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment, the approval of CONITE is required; for most other transfers, the appropriate agency is the Central Re- serve Bank. Minimum maturities and grace periods for different categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been estab- lished on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed external debt (with certain exceptions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, and those of the public sector, by the General Directorate of Public Credit. Debt-service payments on private sector debt were suspended for a two-year period starting July 29, 1986, subject to certain exceptions (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). This suspension was subse- quently extended to July 1990. There is a limit on the servicing of external public debt equivalent to 10 percent of receipts from exports of goods and services. This limitation does not apply to the ser- vicing of short-term debt, reserve liabilities, debt owed to the governments of Latin American coun- tries and regional organizations, payments in kind, or debts incurred since July 29, 1985. Within the overall limit, debt-service payments are generally made mainly to those creditors from whom net inflows are expected. Short-term trade credits with banks that have not signed a refinancing agreement are to be rolled over on maturity until signature of agreement. Local cur- rency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original obligation. With the permission of the Central Re- serve Bank, funds in these special accounts may be lent out domestically as loans denominated in for- eign currency, with a maturity of less than one year at the free market exchange rate. In compliance with the foreign investment re- gime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 PERU new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most in- stances, CONITE. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru wishes to benefit from the duty-free pro- gram of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to have agreed to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company, so as to trans- form it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 30 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, the required participation of national investors in the capital of these enterprises have been not less than 15 percent in the first three years; this participation must be raised to at least 30 percent after 10 years, to at least 45 percent after 20 years, and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 30-year period. Mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, and national companies are those in which at least 80 percent of the capital is owned by national investors. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding min- ing concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government providing for special incen- tives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enter- prises with government participation of at least 25 percent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large-scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed avail- ability of foreign exchange for transfers for (1) recovery of investment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for simi- lar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate; (3) payments for justified services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives that may be granted by spe- cial contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru, but gold exports have been suspended since 1986. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and profes- sional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINPECO is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. The Central Bank may purchase domestically produced gold with CLDs, CCs, and MUC certificates in the same proportions as those given to exporters surrender- ing foreign exchange. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 8. A crawling peg system was introduced, and the Central Bank announced that, effective June 9, it would inform commercial banks about the prevailing exchange rate on a daily basis. November 25. Procedures were established for ad- vance sales of foreign exchange. The sales would take place through an auction (although the Central Bank would establish a floor based on a premium over the current MUC exchange rate), and foreign exchange would be deliverable in 30, 60, or 90 days. Imports and Import Payments January 8. The safeguard clause exempting im- ports from signatories of the Cartagena Accord from the advance import-licensing requirement was lifted. January 14. Payments for imports of educational and cultural books and for nonfinancial services purchased by the public sector would be made at the MUC exchange rate. February 3. A list of goods that may be imported at the MUC exchange rate was approved. The list con- sists of 72 tariff lines, including foodstuffs, inputs for agro-industry, pharmaceuticals and petroleum products, educational books, and imports for public transportation. Obligatory financing requirements were eliminated. March 1. Advance import-licensing requirements were applied to imports from countries that have participated in the Cartagena Accord. March 31. The public sector monopoly over the importation of rice was ended. June 16. Customs tariff benefits and tax exemp- tions were granted to imports of machinery and inputs for agro-industry. July 29. The maximum customs tariff level (in- cluding surcharges) was reduced to 84 percent from 108 percent for capital goods and their components. August 18. An exemption was granted, until the end of the year, on the import-licensing require- ment for small import transactions of less than US$5,000. On September 6, commercial banks were notified about the operating guidelines associated with this decree. September 29. The regulations on the establish- ment of free trade zones were announced. September 30. Essential consumer goods, indus- trial inputs, and pharmaceuticals were exempted from the requirements for prior import licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 383 October 4. The customs tariffs on certain iron and steel products were reduced. October 7. New conditions were announced for the sale of foreign exchange for imports. The Cen- tral Bank published a list of products that, with the approval of the Ministry of Fishing or the Ministry of Agriculture, may be imported with foreign ex- change purchased at the MUC exchange rate. The list was expanded on October 10 and included goods whose import was under the supervision of the Ministries of Industry and Transportation. The customs tariffs on corn and sorghum were reduced. October 10. Customs tariff reductions and tax ex- emptions were granted to imports of selected elec- trical machinery. October 13. Import supervision was exempted for imports value below US$5,000 until December 31, 1989. October 26. Customs tariff reductions and tax ex- emptions were granted to imports of rice. November 8. The prior import-licensing require- ment was limited to goods imported at the MUC exchange market rate. November 14. The list of goods that may be im- ported at the MUC exchange rate was revised. The number of categories of goods importable with the permission of the Ministry of Industry was ex- panded to 536 from 93. November 22. Import supervision was abolished. November 24. One hundred eight categories (mostly inputs) were permitted to be imported at the MUC exchange rate, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. November 29. A 2 percent surcharge was imposed on the value (f .o .b .) of all imports, with the excep- tion of food and medicines. December 15. The import taxes on cotton yarn were lowered to 20 percent from 84 percent. December 19. The customs tariffs and surcharges on several categories of inputs for the industrial sector were reduced. December 26. A minimum customs tariff level of 10 percent was established. December 31. A 2 percent surcharge was imposed on the value ( f .o .b .) of imports of meat and cattle products. Payments for Invisibles November 24. Legislation permitting the Central Bank to guarantee the availability of foreign ex- change for the purchase of nonfinancial services and for amortization and interest payments on loans associated with exploration and development of hy- drocarbon projects was passed. Exports and Export Proceeds January 5. It was announced that the liquidation of PENT certificates and the payment for the propor- tion of export proceeds that had been converted at the official rate would take place at 127 percent of the MUC exchange rate for certain nontraditional textile exports. January 7. The special tax on export proceeds was lowered to 6 percent. February 1. The maturity of CLDs (Freely Dispos- able Foreign Exchange Certificate) was extended to 120 days from 90 days. If converted into domestic currency instead of used for imports, CLDs would be converted at the MUC exchange rate on the date of conversion rather than the MUC exchange rate prevailing on the date of issue. CLDs were made transferable to non-exporting third parties. Imports paid with CLDs would be exempted from obligatory financing requirements. February 9. The special export tax was eliminated. March 1. The maturity of CLDs was lengthened to 180 days. April 20. The percentage of export proceeds re- tained by exporters in the form of CLDs was raised to 40 percent. June 2. The percentage of export proceeds re- tained by exporters in the form of CLDs was raised to 50 percent. June 13. The public sector monopoly over the ex- portation of rice was ended. June 21. The maturity period of CLDs was ex- tended to 210 days. September 30. The CLD retention rate was raised to 55 percent, and the maturity period of CLDs was lengthened to 270 days. October 6. New conditions were announced for the retention and conversion of export proceeds. Henceforth, exporters surrendering foreign ex- change receipts would receive Foreign Exchange Certificates for 45 percent of the f .o .b. value of their exports that can be converted into domestic cur- rency at the MUC exchange rate; CLDs for 45 per- cent of the f .o .b. value would be subject to the same regulations that had applied previously to CLDs; and CCs (Convertible Foreign Exchange Certificate) for 10 percent of the f .o .b. value that could be used to open foreign currency deposits and thereby to obtain foreign bank notes. November 4. The percentage of export proceeds that can be converted into CLDs was lowered to 35 percent, and the percentage of export proceeds that can be converted into CCs was raised to 20 per- cent. November 25. The maturity period of newly issued CLDs was shortened to 180 days from 270 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PERU December 1. The maturity period of outstanding CLDs maturing in 180 to 240 days was limited to 180 days. It was announced that PENT credits would be disbursed in foreign exchange. December 6. Exporters of fresh fruit products dur- ing the period November 1, 1989-March 31, 1990 were made eligible to receive a 45 percent tax rebate. December 22. The maturity period of CCs was es- tablished at 60 days. December 29. It was announced that exporters re- paying their PENT obligations may use their exports proceeds in the following order: up to 35 percent of the export value (f .o.b.) in Foreign Exchange Certifi- cates (at the MUC exchange rate); up to 35 percent of the export value in CLDs; and the remainder in CCs. The payment of interest and commissions may be made with resources obtained through the free exchange market, CLDs, or CCs. Capital February 3. The Ministry of Economy and Fi- nances was authorized to refinance principal and interest of private debt with public guarantees. March 10. Foreign Exchange Bank Certificates (FEBC) may be used for domestic investment pur- poses with the approval of CONITE, (the National Commission on Foreign Investments and Technology). March 18. With the permission of the Central Bank, FEBCs could be redeemed to make provisions for meeting debt-service obligations. April 21. Legislation was approved for the conver- sion of donated public debt for development pro- jects. For qualified projects, the fiscal authorities will make available an amount in domestic currency to cover local expenses equal to the face value of the donated debt obligation. April 28. Accounting and conversions of foreign exchange and domestic currency related to foreign investments made after April 28,1989 were permit- ted at the free market exchange rate. July 4. Disbursements of private sector debt, do- mestic foreign exchange credits, and payments of capital, interest, and commissions were permitted at the free market exchange rate. Lines of credit to the public sector were permitted to be serviced at the MUC exchange rate. July 7. A Conversion System for Donated Public Debt to finance economic and social development projects was approved. Augustll. Repatriated foreign exchange earnings were permitted to be sold at the free market ex- change rate or deposited in foreign exchange accounts. Gold December 12. The Central Bank announced that domestically produced gold would be purchased with CLDs, CCs, and MUC Certificates in the same proportions as those given to exporters surrender- ing foreign exchange earnings; previously, gold had been purchased at a price corresponding to the world price converted to intis at 105 percent of the free market exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- ket. However, the authorities intervene when neces- sary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 29, 1989, the offi- cial rate was P22.44 per US$1. The spot buying and selling margins are determined on a competitive basis for all transactions under the general jurisdic- tion of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines. The Central Bank is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Interbank trading takes place on-floor at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX) from 4:30 p.m. through 5:00 p.m. daily. Off-floor inter- bank trading is prohibited. The Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier on the trading floor. Under the Private Corporate Sector Foreign Cur- rency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Cir- cular Nos. 1076 and 1178) administered by the Pri- vate Debt Restructuring and Repayment Cor- poration (PDRRC), corporate debtors and their for- eign creditors are provided with options for arrang- ing repayments and rescheduling, with partial for- ward exchange cover provided if desired by the debtor; full forward cover is provided only for finan- cially distressed borrowers. To be eligible for the program, debt must be non-trade-related; due to a bank or financial institution, except multilateral agencies, and foreign government agencies that are members of the Paris Club; outstanding and duly registered with the Central Bank as of October 17, 1983; and falling due between October 17, 1983 and December 31,1986 (Central Bank Circular No. 1076) or between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1992 (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). If partial (75 per- cent) forward cover is provided, the PDRRC enters into a forward contract with the debtor, whereby the debtor would pay to the PDRRC peso amounts equiv- alent to the rescheduled maturities converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date that the eligible debt was effectively entered into the program, plus quarterly fees equal to the product of the domestic interest rate prevail- ing at the beginning of the quarter and the peso value of the outstanding debt. The PDRRC would remit the peso value of the obligation at the prevail- ing central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which in turn would assume the principal obligation; the PDRRC also remits through the Central Bank the interest payments at LIBOR to the creditor. On the other hand, if 100 percent forward cover is pro- vided, the PDRRC extends a notional peso loan to the borrower equal to the peso equivalent of the debt involved, converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date the debt was effectively entered into the program. Subject to PDRRC's receipt from the debtor of the service pay- ments on this notional peso loan, the PDRRC would remit the service payments on the foreign loan to the Treasury Department of the Central Bank, which in turn would assume the foreign loan in favor of the creditor. The Central Bank likewise extends forward ex- change cover to the foreign liability of the national government and 14 specified nonfinancial public sector corporations. They are required to deposit the peso equivalent of the obligation in a blocked account on the date of the original maturity, com- puted on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of deposit, with the Central Bank through the national Treasury or with their autho- rized agent banks. The deposit is for the peso equiv- alent of amortization of principal, interest, and penalties, if any, on their foreign exchange obliga- tions owed to foreign commercial banks, maturing between January 1,1987 and December 31,1992 and subject to rescheduling. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Certain new for- eign direct or portfolio investments in the Philip- pines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). In addition to commercial banks (KBS), thrift banks, and rural banks, tourist-oriented establish- ments are authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange; subject to certain conditions, they may purchase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents for conversion into 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PHILIPPINES pesos. Corporations, partnerships, or single pro- prietorships registered with the Department of Tourism and other appropriate government- licensing agencies may accept foreign exchange in payment of goods sold or services rendered. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Autho- rized agent banks and foreign exchange dealers are authorized to accept notes denominated in Saudi Arabian riyals, Kuwaiti dinars, and Bahrain dinars for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether indi- vidual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remit- tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or per- sonal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and non- residents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All merchandise imports are allowed, except for certain commodities that are regulated or restricted for rea- sons of, inter alia, public health, national security, international commitments, and development and rationalization of local industries. Imports are at present classified into freely im- portable commodities and prohibited, banned, reg- ulated, or liberalized commodities. The first group Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars. comprises commodities that are freely importable and that may be given due course by authorized agent banks (AABs) without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Prohibited commodities are com- modities whose importation is prohibited, such as those originating from South Africa, onions, po- tatoes, garlic, cabbages (except for seedling pur- poses), coffee, used clothing and rags, and toy guns. The third category —banned commodities— consists of those for which importation requires prior central bank approval. These are fur ther classi- fied into nonessential consumer (NEC) and un- classified consumer (UC) goods. Regulated com- modity imports are defined as commodities that require clearances and permits from various gov- ernment agencies but do not need prior central bank approval before importation. Finally, liber- alized commodities are those that were formerly banned or regulated but that may now be imported without prior central bank approval. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of com- modities that are classified under the two categories of consumer goods—UC and NEC —are subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports on a consignment basis require prior central bank ap- proval. All importations of machinery, equipment, and spare parts for agriculture and for export- oriented enterprises registered with the Central Bank, the BOI, and Export Processing Zone Au- thority (EPZA) may be given due course by AABs without prior approval by the Central Bank or favor- able endorsement from concerned government agencies, except those falling under "other regu- lated imports." Importations of capital goods fi- nanced through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Imports originating in socialist or centrally plan- ned countries require the prior approval of the Phil- ippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open ac- count (O/A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is restricted to oil firms, export- oriented companies certified or registered by the Central Bank, the BOI, the Garments and Textile Export Board, the EPZA, exporters of semiconduc- tor devices, exporters of garments and footwear, franchised public utility concerns, participants in the Progressive Car Manufacturing Program, Pro- gressive Export Program for Consumer Electronics Products, Progressive Diesel Manufacturing Pro- gram, and Progressive Motorcycle Program, and accredited participants in the BOI Pulp and Paper Industry Rationalization Program. The use of these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 387 procedures by producer firms is normally restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$1,000 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment and are subject to the release certificate requirement. Imports not in commercial quantity financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Phil- ippines (i.e., "no-dollar" imports) are allowed, sub- ject to prescribed conditions, and hence are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. The reserve requirement on marginal deposits on all import letters of credit is 100 percent. All import transactions channeled through AABs are reported to the Central Bank within 24 hours of the transaction in the case of letters of credit opened and within 48 hours of the issuance of release certifi- cates for DA/OA availments, for monitoring purposes. At the request of an authorized agent bank, other financial institution, or other government agency, a firm may be "watch-listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments or viola- tion of government rules. A "watch-listed" firm may not open import letters of credit without the ap- proval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon or after favorable endorsement by the requesting agency. Certain authorized agent banks require a 50 percent deposit against opening of let- ters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per- cent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports into border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are pro- hibited. In principle, all other payments are permit- ted, with the prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, certain limits are established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, maintenance, and expenses of dependents of resi- dents while abroad, remittances of profits, divi- dends, and interest, royalties, and for film and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange al- lowances for travel abroad are limited to the follow- ing amounts: (1) for both business and nonbusi- ness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of US$3,000 for the United States, Can- ada, South America, Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Africa, Japan, and New Zealand (Area I); (2) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irre- spective of duration, up to a maximum of US$1,000 for Hong Kong, Taiwan Province of China, the Re- public of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and other countries not included in the coverage of the area under (1) (Area II); (3) for travelers under 21 years of age, up to a maximum of US$500, irre- spective of duration and destination; and (4) for overseas contract workers with prearranged em- ployment, up to a maximum of US$100. A foreign tourist holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equivalent of US$1,000 against payment in another foreign currency brought in by the tourist; beyond this amount, ap- proval must be obtained from the Central Bank. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students undertaking bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities. The al- lowances are divided according to the areas in which study is undertaken: living allowances are provided up to US$500 a month in Area I and US$350 a month in Area II; books and supplies allowances up to US$500 a year in both areas; clothing allowance up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II; other miscellaneous school expenses are allowed up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II. Any scholarship al- lowances are deducted from these amounts. High school students may be granted foreign exchange for education only under an exchange program and under the following conditions: the maximum travel funds for each student are US$500, and the max- imum clothing allowance and incidental expenses during the stay abroad are US$500, or US$1,000 a student a calendar year. The limits on remittances to dependents of resi- dents are as follows: US$250 a month for each dependent living in Area I as defined above, and US$150 a month for each dependent living in Area II. The maintenance allowances for depen- dents are granted only for close relatives under con- ditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized after October 14,1984 are permitted in full, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights ac- cruing after October 14, 1984 are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Cen- tral Bank or the Bureau of Patents, Trademarks, and Technology Transfers. Remittances of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PHILIPPINES producer's share of earnings (net of deductible ex- penses and taxes) made on motion-picture films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from films. Television film rentals are not subject to the 60 per- cent limit but are remittable in full based on rates stipulated in individual contracts or agreements. Notwithstanding other provisions, however, all un- serviced, eligible, nontrade, nonloan remittances (e.g., dividends, profits, royalties, lease payments, fees, commissions, etc.) earned and having become due and payable before October 15, 1984 and in arrears of transfers as of that date shall not be ser- viced without prior central bank approval. Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred during the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current in- come may be transferred. Foreign exchange within the limits established above may be purchased from authorized agent banks; the prior approval of the Central Bank is required specifically for foreign exchange remit- tance of tourists in excess of P 1,000, and for profits and dividends. Applications for payments for cer- tain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign ex- change except as authorized by the Central Bank. In addition to the allowable limits on travel funds, resi- dents may take out foreign currency notes up to US$1,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had pre- viously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Cen- tral Bank to take out more than P 1,500 in domestic bank notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When travel- ing abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P2,700 for first-class passage and Pl,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of PI,350 for first-class passengers and P 810 for economy- class passengers are provided for groups of people traveling for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P 400 for first-class passengers and P300 for economy-class passengers are provided for depen- dents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to the Republic of South Africa and all exports of logs and lumber are prohibited. Exports of certain commodities, mostly agricultural or tradi- tional products, deemed essential for industrializa- tion, conservation, and economic development are regulated and require prior export clearance from the government agencies concerned. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted. All exports must be covered by export decla- rations/permits issued by authorized agent banks of the Central Bank. In addition, export commodities classified as "traditional" must be covered by a Re- port of Foreign Sales—to be filed by the exporter within 24 hours of closing of sale. Export proceeds must be received in one of the 21 designated foreign currencies (see footnote 1). As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the desig- nated foreign currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to the Philippines within 60 days of the date of shipment, unless a longer period is allowed by the Central Bank in special cases. Such proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized agent bank and converted into pesos within 3 business days of receipt. The undrawn balances of exports with ini- tial drawings of less than 100 percent of f .o .b. in- voice value must be transferred to the Philippines within 150 days of the date of shipment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin America, and within 120 days of the date of shipment for exports to other countries. An irrevocable letter of credit payable at sight is required for all exports of scrap metal, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, and Taiwan Province of China. There are no export taxes. Export trade with socialist or centrally planned countries is handled through the Philippine Inter- national Trading Corporation. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. When- ever the net foreign exchange receipts from invis- ibles amount to at least US$100,000 (or its equiv- alent in other currencies) for the calendar year immediately preceding, the firm may, upon applica- tion, be certified by the Central Bank as export ori- ented and shall be entitled to retain a portion of its earnings in a special foreign currency deposit ac- count with AABs for operating expenses abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 389 and other contingencies, equivalent to the aver- age expenses incurred during the preceding 3 months plus 10 percent of the gross foreign ex- change receipts during the immediately preceding 12 months. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies (including foreign bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks) by resi- dents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered for- eign currency accounts are allowed, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresi- dents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their for- eign earnings, ranging from 50 percent to 80 per- cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to PI,000 in domestic bank notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. Peso-denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Af- rica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital transfers, with the exception of certain banking op- erations and certain transactions related to the fi- nancing of international trade (see below), are sub- ject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export- oriented industries, and to other (non-export- oriented) industries not using domestic credit re- sources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt- equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic commercial banks, which, if made after May 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and, if made before that date, are repatriable according to the schedule specified under (4) in the following paragraph. There are restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash invest- ments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made af ter March 15,1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export- oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign ex- change earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments start- ing one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for invest- ments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal an- nual installments af ter liquidation; for amounts within the range US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments af ter liquidation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments af ter liquidation. Approval and regis- tration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be eligible for profit remittances and capital repatria- tion. During the period between the sale of the investment and actual repatriation, the proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Cen- tral Bank, in government securities, in shares of stock in BOI-registered industries, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investment is also permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be con- verted into equity investment. Such equity invest- ments are subject to a fee and/or foreign exchange fund ing requirement that is less for preferred sec- tors (the export, agricultural, and certain social sec- tors) than for other sectors. For investments in the priority sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first three years af ter the investment, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 PHILIPPINES and during the fourth through eighth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year; for in- vestments in other sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the tenth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. Without prior approval from the Central Bank, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal inter- national trade transactions. They may, however, ac- cept deposits in 22 scheduled currencies2 from non- residents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent withholding tax. Twenty-five domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in- ternational money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad, provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. Maturities of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as follows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 million, seven years; and (4) over US$3 million, eight to ten years. Firms whose products are clearly destined for export, as well as firms earning foreign exchange and duly certified as belonging to other priority areas (food, energy, infrastructure, transport, and communication) with appropriate government agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 mil- lion with a minimum repayment period of seven to eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 percent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the pro- posed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded or for firms that are in arrears with government financial institutions. Any prospective borrowing equivalent to US$3 million or more must be submitted for inclusion in the Central Bank's programming of external credit resources. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Cen- tral Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by 2In addition to the currencies listed in footnote 1, Iraqi dinars. the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may initially transfer up to US$5,000 without prior central bank approval. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five equal annual installments, starting one year after the initial transfer. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires the prior approval of the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Opera- tions and Investments Department. Except as oth- erwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any con- tract or transaction that may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or that may involve any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a non- resident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between resi- dents and nonresidents. Twenty-one foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philip- pines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of non- resident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign ex- change remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Off- shore banking units may also sell inward remit- tances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Omnibus Investments Code of 1987 (E.O. No. 226) guarantees all investors in enterprises reg- istered with the Central Bank the right to repatriate their investments and to remit earnings thereon as well as sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaran- teed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer in- vestments" and "preferred investments"; the for- mer are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eign nationals are permitted to operate only in "pi- oneer areas of investment," and at least 60 percent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Omnibus Investments Code, foreign investments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 391 in new enterprises not registered under Book I (Investment with Incentives) must obtain prior authority from the BOI. Authority will be granted unless the proposed investment (1) would conflict with existing constitutional provisions and laws regulating the degree of required ownership by Philippine nationals in the enterprise; (2) would pose a clear and present danger of promoting mo- nopolies or combinations in restraint of trade; (3) would be made in an enterprise engaged in an area being adequately exploited by Philippine na- tionals; (4) would conflict or be inconsistent with the Investment Priorities Plan in force at the time the investment is sought to be made; or (5) would not contribute to the sound and balanced development of the national economy on a self-sustaining basis. Investments in the form of foreign exchange or other assets actually transferred to the Philippines must also be registered with the Central Bank. The BOI assesses and appraises the value of such assets other than foreign exchange. Gold The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the ten domestic primary gold producers. The pro- ducers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official interna- tional reserves. Small gold panners are exempt from the scheme. Gold in any form other than jewelry may be imported only for industrial and artistic purposes, and any person desiring to import gold must secure a license from the appropriate depart- ment of the Central Bank. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1 Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 Piso Douglas Mac- Arthur centenary coin (1980); a 1,500 Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 Piso Bataan- Corregidor coin (1982); and a 2,500 Piso Aquino- Reagan coin (1986). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Exports of gold and/or gold-bearing materials, including jewelry, in any shape, form, or quantity require a prior written authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 23. Executive Order No. 345 modified the rates of customs tariffs on certain imports to imple- ment the decisions of the Third ASEAN Summit and the Twenty-Fourth Meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism (COTT). A minimum margin of preference of 25 percent was provided for items contained in the Philippine exclusion list, and a margin of preference of 50 percent would be pro- vided for certain items under the ASEAN Preferen- tial Trading Arrangements (PTA) within five years. January 30. A Circular Letter provided for the transfer of the processing of applications for impor- tation of replacement parts from the BOI to the Bureau of Import Services (BIS) of the Department of Trade and Industry. February 2. Circular No. 1193 issued guidelines regarding the importation under letters of credit of completely built-up, secondhand vehicles for use in taxicab operations. February 10. Memorandum Order No. 218 allowed the importation in semi-knocked-down (SKD) con- dition of passenger cars under the Car Development Program (CDP) and of vehicles under Categories 1 and 11 of the Commercial Vehicle Development Pro- gram (CVDP) for a limited period. March 27. Executive Order No. 353 reduced im- port duty rates on cement and clinker. March 29. Executive Order No. 354 suspended the implementation of certain sections of Executive Order No. 782, Series of 1982, which regulates the importation of certain types of completely built-up, used commercial vehicles. March 31. Circular No. 1195 provided that the importation of cement and cement products would no longer require the prior approval of the Philip- pine Cement Industry Authority as discharged by the Board of Investments. April 10. Memorandum Order No. 230 approved guidelines for the no-dollar importation of sec- ondhand motor vehicles of returning residents/ immigrants/qualified donees. April 17. Circular No. 1196 allowed the utilization of the Open Account (OA) and Documents Against Acceptance (DA) import arrangements on a trial basis for six months for the importation of fertilizers and raw materials for the manufacture of fertilizer. June 7. A Circular Letter advised that the Inter- Agency Committee on Used Trucks and Engines had decided to allow the importation of "used agri- cultural, marine and other gasoline/diesel engines ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 PHILIPPINES not intended for transport use" listed therein with- out its prior approval. June 22. Executive Order No. 361 suspended the implementation of certain provisions of Executive Order No. 782, Series of 1982, which prescribe the gross vehicular weights (GVW) and age of used trucks that can be imported, as well as the provi- sions that prescribe the capacity and age of used gasoline engines that can be imported. July 14. Circular No. 1205 provided that the im- portation of commodities listed in Annex 1 (38) would no longer require the prior approval of the Board of Investments, while the importation of the commodities listed in Annex 2 (21) would no longer require the prior approval of the Radiological Health Service, Department of Health. Moreover, the im- portation of "cigarette paper, cut to size, in leaves, booklets, or tubes" would no longer require the prior approval of the Central Bank. July 21. Executive Order No. 364 modified the rate of customs tar iffs and classifications, and specified alternative rates imposed on certain articles under Section 104 of the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978, as amended. September 14. Circular No. 1210 provided that the importation of 13 products listed in the annex at- tached thereto would no longer require the approval of the regulating agency likewise indicated therein. October 6. Circular No. 1212 provided that the importation of 17 products listed in the annex at- tached thereto would no longer require the approval of the concerned regulating agency likewise indi- cated therein. October 13. A Circular Letter required the submis- sion of the original Certificate of Authority to Import (CAI) issued by the Inter-Agency Committee on Replacement Parts when opening letters of credit for importation of spare parts. November 2. Memorandum Order No. 261 ap- proved the amendments to the guidelines for the no-dollar importation of secondhand motor ve- hicles of returning residents/immigrants/qualified donees. November 23. Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks (MAAB) No. 9 approved the implement- ation by the Central Bank of the 1989 revised Philip- pine Standard Commodity Classification Manual (PsccM), effective January 1, 1990. December 26. Executive Order No. 387 suspended the rates of import duty for cement and cement clinker under Presidential Decree No. 1464 (other- wise known as the Tariff and Customs code of 1978, as amended) during the period of national emergency. December 29. Circular No. 1219 provided that the importation of 39 products listed in the annex at- tached thereto would no longer require the approval of the concerned regulating agency likewise indi- cated therein. Exports and Export Proceeds March 21. MAAB No. 3 allowed exports of copra on "landed weight/quality final" or "shipped weight/quality final" basis. April 26. Circular No. 1198 prescribed the rules governing exports without foreign exchange re- ceipts. Each export shipment (except for shipments of household and personal effects) must be covered by an Export Declaration (without Foreign Ex- change Proceeds) issued by an AAB, and the ap- proval of the Central Bank Export Department would be required prior to shipment, except for certain categories. July 18. A Circular Letter provided the guidelines on the ban on lumber exports and certain clarifica- tions thereon to be enforced by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). Capital April 21. A Circular Letter authorized the Central Bank to accept peso deposits covering maturities on amortizations falling due after June 30, 1988, on accounts subject to Paris Club rescheduling as de- fined in Section 1 of Circular No. 1139. June 9. A Circular Letter provided that sales pro- ceeds of central bank-registered foreign invest- ments in a domestic company whose stocks were not listed could be traded in the local stock ex- changes when investments were made, and that company shares that were subsequently listed/ traded in the local stock exchanges at the time of their sale could be repatriated in full, net of taxes and fees, subject to prior approval by the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Operations and Investments Department. June 13. Circular No. 1202 prescribed the guide- lines regarding the rescheduling/consolidation of debts of the Philippines, in line with the agreement reached by the Philippine Government on May 26, 1989 with representatives of creditor countries par- ticipating in the Paris Club. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy = 1 zloty). The exchange rate between the zloty and the currencies of countries other than members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies, each of which ac- counts for at least 1 percent of Poland's external current account settlements with the convertible currency area. The currency composition of the bas- ket and the currency weights are defined on a monthly basis in light of current account transac- tions in convertible currency. The value of the zloty in terms of the basket is adjusted periodically on the basis of the difference between foreign and domes- tic prices for traded goods and with a view to secur- ing the profitability of at least 80 percent of exports.2 In the course of 1989, the external value of the zloty was lowered 24 times against the basket of currencies. As a result, the value of the U.S. dollar rose from Zl 502.55 at the end of 1988 to Zl 6,500 at the end of 1989.3 The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes ex- change rates for the European Currency Unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 29 countries4 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the notes and coins of a limited number5 of the currencies, it stands ready to effect transactions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate, ex- cept for notes and coins, for which the margins are set at 2 percent. Rates are generally set at least once 1The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2For these purposes, profitability is considered to have been achieved when the ratio of the export transaction price of a particular product to its domestic price (both expressed in a common currency) is equal to or greater than unity. 3On January 1, 1990, the zloty was depreciated fur ther to Zl 9,500 per US$1. 4Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese es- cudos, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 5Indian rupees, Iranian rials, Irish pounds, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, and Saudi Arabian riyals. a week, normally on Thursdays, to become effective when they are published on the following Monday. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in interna- tional markets on the day the rates are set. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on December 29, 1989 were Zl 6,467.50 and Zl 6,532.50, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies. The Council of Banks sets maximum allowable commis- sions and charges on foreign exchange transactions in line with international practice. These levies are paid in zlotys (foreign currency) by domestic (for- eign) customers. During 1989 foreign exchange for import payments was also auctioned separately by Bank Handlowy, the Export Development Bank, and Bank PKO, S. A. The exchange rates established in the last auctions in 1989 were Zl 4,635 (price over the official rate of exchange), Zl 5,560, and Zl 6,691, respectively, per US$1. Since March 15, 1989, a pri- vate foreign exchange market consisting of foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange bu- reaus (kantory) has been in operation. The ex- change rates in this market are determined by sup- ply and demand conditions. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were Zl 9,200 and Zl 9,800, respectively, per US$1 at the PKO Savings Bank. Most of Poland's trade and financial settlements with CMEA member countries are effected in trans- ferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The clearing ruble is used for most settlements with Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and for some settlements with Democratic Kampuchea and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Official ex- change rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set by the National Bank of Poland and published each Monday. Exchange rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set at the same level, and are adjusted periodically, with a view to ensuring the profitability of at least 80 percent of exports to the socialist countries. During 1989, the zloty was de- preciated less rapidly against the transferable ruble (TR) than against the basket of convertible curren- cies, and the exchange rate of the zloty moved from 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 POLAND Zl 230 per TR1 at the end of 1988 to Zl 1,650 per TR1 at the end of 1989.6 As a result, the cross rate of the TR depreciated to TR 3.636 per US$1 from TR 2.185. Buying and selling rates for transferable and clear- ing rubles are quoted with a spread of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the zloty against trans- ferable and clearing rubles were Zl 1,641.75 and Zl 1,658.25 respectively, per one ruble. The NBP also quotes weekly exchange rates for the zloty against the currencies of other CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are based on multilateral and supplemental bilateral agreements with the socialist partners and are used for noncom- mercial settlements (e.g., diplomatic representation expenses, international travel, scholarships, etc.). Buying and selling rates (including for notes and coins) are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. A 30 percent surcharge is applied on the sale of these currencies for private trips abroad; the rate of surcharges applicable to trips to Czechoslovakia and Hungary is 150 percent, and to other member countries of the CMEA, 50 percent.7 Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Ex- change Regulation Law lies with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the President of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, or for a specified group thereof. Procedures for issuing in- dividual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the Minister of Fi- nance. The authority for the enforcement of the foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the President of the NBP. However, deci- sions concerning individual foreign exchange per- mits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Admin- istrative Court (SNA). Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months after returning to Poland. There are surrender re- quirements on a portion of export proceeds and pensions from abroad and for foreign visitors. On 6On January 1, 1990, the zloty was depreciated further to Zl 2,100 per TR 1. 7Effective January 1, 1990, in selling foreign exchange for pri- vate trips to CMEA countries, a 29 percent surcharge was applied to the exchange rate for the ruble and a surcharge of 100 percent to the exchange rates of other CMEA member countries. the basis of these surrenders, and in implementing the annual balance of payments plan adopted by Parliament without exceeding the ceiling on the state's foreign debt, the Minister of Finance draws up an annual foreign exchange allocation plan for imports. Residents must channel foreign transac- tions through a foreign exchange bank. Residents other than foreign citizens must report their prop- erty holdings abroad to the NBP. The same applies to nonresidents with property in Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- ister of Finance and the bodies responsible to him, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs of- fices, the border guard, and post offices. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Po- land has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.8 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural and juridical persons) can hold foreign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, etc. Four types of foreign currency accounts are available: (1) convertible currency ac- counts "A"; (2) foreign exchange accounts for for- eign settlement, "ROD"; (3) Bank PKO, S.A. de- posit certificates; and (4) socialist currency accounts "S." (1) Accounts "A" are held by natural persons and can be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or de- posited without the requirement of a declaration of 8 At the end of December 1989, Poland had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, the People's Re- public of China, Colombia, Ecuador, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, and Nepal. Poland also had trade agreements with bilateral payments features for certain commodities with Argentina, Ban- gladesh, Malta, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia. Except for bilateral agreements with Albania, the People's Republic of China, India, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Nepal, settle- ments under bilateral agreements were in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with the People's Republic of China were in Swiss francs; with India, in Indian rupees; with Nepal, in pounds sterling; and in clearing rubles with Albania, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 395 the sources of the funds. Account holders may use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by them or other persons, to withdraw in the form of foreign currency or foreign exchange coupons (Bank PKO, S.A. coupons) for use in hard currency stores, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. The funds on deposit cannot be used to effect settlements between individuals, but funds withdrawn in foreign currency can be resold in the private foreign exchange market. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Interest, paid in foreign ex- change, is earned at the following annual rates: for accounts maintained in French francs, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars, 4 percent on call deposits, 8 percent, 9 percent, and 10 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year term deposits; and for accounts maintained in deutsche mark and Swiss francs, 3 percent on call deposits, 7 percent, 8 per- cent, and 9 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year term deposits. (2) Foreign exchange accounts for foreign settle- ments, "ROD," are held by juridical persons and can be credited with foreign exchange retained against exports in convertible currencies. Account holders may use the funds freely to purchase production- related and investment goods imported from the convertible currency area, either for their own use to make certain specified debt-service payments; to pay for patents; to pay for business trips; to cover marketing expenses; and to purchase goods pro- duced domestically subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, funds of up to 1 percent and 5 percent of annual net revenues can be used for imports to support social services for the employees of the account holder and for socially useful purposes not related to the account holder's business activity, respectively. The funds cannot be used for settlement between enterprises, but they may be offered for sale at periodic auctions held by the Export Development Bank. Interest is paid in foreign exchange at the annual rates of 3 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year deposits. Deposits on current accounts do not earn interest. (3) Bank PKO deposit certificates are issued by the Bank PKO, S.A. in convertible currencies. The sources of funds need not be declared. Interest pay- able in foreign currency after each six-month period is earned at the following annual rates: 3 percent, 8 percent, and 9 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year deposits. The deposit certifi- cates are issued in U.S. dollars in denominations of US$100 and US$500.9 (4) Accounts "S" can be credited with socialist country currencies derived from wages, property sales, inheritances, etc., and with transfers from other accounts S. Funds in these accounts are freely transferable abroad (to other socialist countries) and may be freely withdrawn. Deposits of call money earn interest at 3 percent a year, and one- year term deposits earn interest at 4.5 percent a year. Resident individuals and enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission of the NBP. Such permission is granted only on "proof of necessity." Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible cur- rency accounts (accounts "C") at the NBP, the Bank Handlowy, and the Bank PKO, S.A., or one of the commercial banks. These accounts can be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other accounts C and with convert- ible currency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used for purchases from hard currency stores and to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency. Interest rates on accounts C of natural persons are fixed by banks and are paid at an annual rate in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent for demand deposits, and in the range of 7 percent to 11 percent for term deposits (depending on the account currency, the time limit, and the rates on international money markets). Interest rates on ac- counts C of juridical persons are fixed at the same rates, except demand deposits, which do not earn interest. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors must declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be cred- 9These deposit certificates are distinct from Bank PKO cou- pons, which can be used to buy "internal exports" in hard cur- rency stores and other designated sales outlets. The Bank PKO, S.A. stands ready to sell (buy) these coupons to (from) Polish residents in return for zlotys at rates close to the exchange rate in the private foreign exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 POLAND ited with foreign exchange converted to zlotys at the official exchange rate. Permits for conversion back to foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also de- posit their earnings on savings bank books, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or resi- dents. Such transfers require a foreign exchange permit, except gifts for residents. Permits for trans- fers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requirement. Licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Cooperation, by its "full-powers" agent employed by the economic unit applying for the license, or by local chambers of commerce. The customs authority issues licenses not exceeding Zl 100,000 in value for gifts and souvenirs. Only economic units with permanent trading rights are eligible to have a licensing agent of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Cooperation in residence. There are two types of licenses: general and indi- vidual licenses. General licenses apply to an esti- mated 80 percent of exports and imports (in value terms). Eligible items include all imports and ex- ports that are centrally balanced, transactions under long-term cooperation agreements, imports for re- exports, imports needed for production financed by ROD accounts, raw material imports for export pro- duction, imports for internal export, and all non- centrally-balanced exports in convertible currencies that are settled in cash. Individual licenses apply to an estimated 20 percent of exports and imports and cover special transactions, such as those settled on credit terms, barter transactions, transactions under bilateral agreement, leasing, or where general li- censes are denied. General licenses are normally issued for a period of one year but may be issued for a period up to three years in appropriate cases. These licenses are issued to most foreign trade enterprises and units engaged in foreign trade, except very small units that are engaged in a wide range of products. The license stipulates the list of permissible products and applicable limits (in terms of quantity and value) in the case of centrally balanced exports and imports; no additional licenses are required if the limits are exceeded by less than 5 percent. For trans- actions that are not centrally balanced, the require- ment depends on the items in question. For certain consumption items, no limits are set. For intermedi- ate products, estimates of domestic demand that should be met are provided as a guideline. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Cooperation must render its decision on the issuance of a license within ten days after an application is filed. No further license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the perfor- mance or use of related services. Trade in certain goods is prohibited for social reasons under the penal code. Individual licenses are readily granted at no cost, provided that the relevant regulations are observed and that the transactions are in line with national plan allocations. Contracts do not become valid, nor may payment orders be drawn, until a license has been issued, except for intergovernmental agree- ments and instantaneous contracts, such as those made on a metals exchange. A license application must be filed with the appropriate authority within seven days after agreement on a contract is reached. A license remains valid until the final delivery date for the goods, or until the date of final payment; in specific cases, the validity period of a license may be extended. For data collection purposes, the eco- nomic unit must forward a general authorization and a license to the Foreign Trade Information Cen- ter within two days of their respective issuance; the documents are returned to the units within ten days of their registration by the Center. On the basis of the registered documents and the utilization rec- ords that the units are required to keep, the customs administration monitors whether goods are traded according to valid documents. It also has the au- thority to inspect all relevant documents and to issue instructions for eliminating irregularities. In the event of changes in the contracted provi- sions, the economic unit must notify the relevant authorities (the Ministry of Foreign Economic Coop- eration or its agent, and the Information Center) of the necessary changes in the license within seven days of receipt of the documentation, stating the reason for the changes. In the event of a change of more than 5 percent in the foreign currency price, or mistakes or errors in data, a new license must be issued, which automatically and simultaneously re- scinds the former version. If a license is not fully utilized, the economic unit must declare this to the appropriate authorities within 14 days after confir- mation of this fact. Such a declaration is not required if the underutilization amounts to less than Zl 50,000, or does not exceed 5 percent of the price or volume stated in the license. Settlement in for- eign exchange is authorized and effected upon re- ceipt, and according to the terms, of valid docu- ments for settlement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 397 There are no import quotas. Foreign exchange allocation plans, which are prepared by the Plan- ning Commission in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Cooperation, Ministry of Fi- nance, and the NBP, are approved by the Council of Ministers on an annual basis. The annual plan de- termines import needs by commodity groups and value for centrally financed imports. These are bal- anced against financing according to priorities, with raw and intermediate products being the most im- portant. For decentralized imports, the annual plan specifies the global ceiling. Under the plan for 1989, 38 percent of convertible currency imports were to be financed centrally; these imports, largely inter- mediate products purchased in line with the needs of the annual plan, are distributed to the enterprises by the State. Another 35 percent were to be financed by use of the enterprises' own ROD accounts, and 21 percent by foreign exchange auctions in which centrally provided foreign exchange and balances retained in ROD accounts were sold at freely deter- mined exchange rates. The balance, 6 percent, was reserved for imports for re-export and internal exports. In 1989, Bank Handlowy auctioned US$447.8 mil- lion of centrally supplied foreign exchange to enter- prises for imports of specified basic commodities. Following the withdrawal of phosphates in April 1989, which became eligible again for cen- trally financed foreign exchange at the official rate, the commodity list for 1989 comprised 51 items. The foreign exchange auctioned by Bank Handlowy was for delivery up to six months forward and could be used only by the successful bidders for the com- modities indicated or had to be resold to Bank Handlowy. The Export Development Bank (EDB) auctioned US$350.4 million in 1989, including about US$80 million of centrally supplied foreign ex- change. With the suspension of central provision of foreign exchange on July 1, 1989, the EDB was lim- ited to intermediate foreign exchange held in ROD accounts during the remainder of the year. In 1989, the Bank PKO, S.A. auctioned US$76.3 million of centrally supplied foreign exchange for imports by domestic trading organizations without foreign ex- change proceeds of their own. In addition, a small amount of clearing balances was auctioned in 1989. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. For most favored-nation (MFN) coun- tries, the average tariff rate is 8 percent, with rates of 0-10 percent for raw materials and unprocessed products, of 10-25 percent for investment goods, and of 30 percent for industrial consumer goods. For imports originating in countries not enjoying MFN status, the rates of duty are twice as high except for cases in which the MFN rate is zero, where a 25 percent rate is imposed. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treat- ment under the scheme of General System of Pref- erences. Also, imports from 42 developing coun- tries, tropical products from chapters 6 to 24 of the customs tariff, and many goods from chapters 32 and 94 that are of interest to developing countries enter the country duty free. A separate customs tariff applies to noncommercial imports.10 However, in general, residents may import reasonable quan- tities of goods for noncommercial use free of customs duty. Quantity limits may be set on a product-by-product basis. There are some special regulations pertaining to border trade with the U.S.S.R. Export subsidies—financed through the Export Development Fund from import duties, net collec- tions from price corrections on imports from CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and part of the profits from the sale of centrally supplied foreign exchange at EDB auctions—are paid at a range of 10-30 per- cent for some thirty items (including agricultural products, light industry, and metallurgical prod- ucts) exported to the convertible currency area and at rates of 50 percent and 100 percent for agricultural exports to CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Imports are subject to stamp duties and turnover taxes at rates similar to those on domestic goods. Exports are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Economic units are entitled to relief from income tax based on the proportion of their exports in total sales (with domestic sales valued net of turnover taxes). The rate of relief is 0.4 percentage point for each percentage point of export share up to a maximum share of 75 percent. Most trade with CMEA member countries, Al- bania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is conducted under bilateral trade and pay- ments agreements negotiated annually within the framework of five-year bilateral trade and payments agreements. Imports from these countries may be exempted from customs duties. Unless specifically exempted, all foreign currency receipts from exports must be declared, repatriated within 2 months of receipts, and surrendered in 10On January 1, 1990, this tariff was unified with the tariff for commercial imports, and surcharges were imposed on a number of items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 POLAND part to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days after receiving notice that foreign exchange has been deposited in the exporters' account in Poland. Nonresidents may take out of Poland, free of customs duty, souvenirs with a value of up to a specified amount in local currency. However, they may export goods bought in hard currency stores up to the value of foreign currencies declared at the point of first entry and adjusted for reasonable liv- ing expenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from mer- chandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions that have fulfilled licensing requirements. All other invisible transactions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. In principle, permission for tourist travel to coun- tries other than members of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is granted only if means of support abroad is assured. This requirement can be met in one of the following ways: (1) living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents; (2) living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds, held in an A or an S account or acquired in the private foreign exchange market; or (3) travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers may take out of Poland the equivalent of US$500 in convertible cur- rencies without official permission. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. For official and business travel, separate al- lowances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out up to the equivalent of US$10,000 from accounts maintained by the enterprises that employ them for the purchase of goods and services associ- ated with their business activity or travel expenses. Business travelers to CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea may take out up to the equivalent of TR 1,000 for their travel expenses. Nonresident travelers to Poland are expected to fulfill minimum living expenses by converting a required amount of foreign exchange (equivalent to US$15 a day) into zlotys. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries can reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent brought into Poland, provided the amount is not more than the amount originally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Without a permit from the foreign exchange authority, residents may bring into or take out of the country domestic cur- rency in an amount not exceeding Zl 250,000 a per- son, of which the largest coin qualifying as legal tender in Poland is Zl 50. Nonresidents from CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea may bring into or take out of the country zlotys up to the amount certified by their domestic banks. Special exchange regulations apply to invisible transactions with CMEA countries: residents visit- ing CMEA countries are entitled to an allowance of Zl 80,000 a person every two years, and one half of this amount for each child up to the age of 7 years. In addition, funds in S accounts may be used. A por- tion of the travel allowance may be given in the currency of the country to be visited in amounts determined by that country's regulations. For the rest, travelers must acquire traveler's checks in the currency of destination. All conversions are effected with a 30 percent surcharge. On condition of reciprocity, residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign ex- change at the official exchange rate to nonresidents that are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administration. Busi- ness entities may use their ROD accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employees. Sim- ilarly, individuals may use their A or S accounts to pay for membership in organizations abroad, costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equiv- alent of US$10,000 a case, and taxes, customs du- ties, or administrative fees payable abroad. Under certain circumstances, foreign exchange may be made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresi- dent relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Po- land, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ven- tures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. On condition of reciprocity and subject to an an- nual limit of Zl 3 million a person, residents are permitted to make certain remittances to CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Such remittances include wages and salaries paid to employees of diplomatic, com- mercial, and other official missions of these coun- tries, or paid on the basis of international agree- ments or labor contracts, stipends, per diems, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 399 other payments connected with employment or ed- ucation in Poland, honoraria, damages, pensions, annuities, insurance premia, legacies, alimony up to Zl 50,000 a month and family allowances up to Zl 20,000 a month. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, can be transferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the investment yields a convertible currency export-to- import surplus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus can be transferred abroad, provided the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. For joint ventures incorporated under the 1988 Law on Economic Activity with Par- ticipation of Foreign Parties, there are no limits on the transfer abroad by nonresidents of profits accru- ing from export proceeds net of import costs. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on Po- land's permissible external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S. A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short to long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks. With approval from the Minister of Finance, so- cialized enterprises may take financial loans from foreign banks. Subject to approval by the Minister of Foreign Economic Cooperation, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, socialized enterprises are allowed commercial credits granted by foreign banks or suppliers to finance imports. To borrow abroad, a socialized enterprise also requires the consent df the domestic bank that holds its basic account. The Government has established general direc- tives for extending commercial credits relating to foreign trade activities. Socialized enterprises may extend such credits only with approval from the Minister of Foreign Economic Cooperation, who prescribes the contractual conditions in each case. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. A general permission exists for the financing of exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services up to the equivalent of US$500,000 with repayment terms up to 360 days. Such a permission also exists for the financing of imports with a value of up to the equivalent of US$500,000 and repayment terms up to three years. In both instances, the Foreign Debt Servicing Fund (FOZZ) needs to be notified within 14 days of the financing terms. Until the entry into effect of the Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties on Jan- uary 1,1989, direct foreign investments in Poland in the field of small-scale industry were allowed under the law of July 6,1982 (Polonia companies). A permit was required from the chief administrative office of the area ("voivodship") where the investment was to be located. The permit, which was valid for up to 20 years, was issued after the investor had lodged a "founding deposit" in convertible currency with the Bank PKO, S.A. in an amount equivalent to US$50,000. A foreign investor was obliged to import inputs in kind in the form of machinery and equip- ment, materials, and technology. The value of such goods could not be lower than the minimum found- ing deposit, which yielded interest according to the normal bank rate for C accounts and could be with- drawn after certification by the voivodship office that the investment project was complete. Upon liquidation of investment, a foreign investor could transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of assets sold in foreign currency. A nonresident investor in a Polonia company could obtain zloty credits from the Bank PKO, S.A. for the financing of both current production destined for the domestic market and for exports and investment outlays associated with such production; such credits could not exceed 30 percent of working capital for current produc- tion. Investment credits were limited to a maximum of 30 percent of the estimated cost of the project for investments. A nonresident investor was exempt from income tax payments for three years, provided that one third of the tax liability was invested in Poland. The maximum tax rate for nonresident in- vestors was 80 percent, but tax allowances were granted if production was directed to final domestic consumption or for export, as well as when new investment projects were undertaken. In the latter case, allowances of up to 50 percent of the cost of the project were granted. In practice, the effective tax rate averaged 60-65 percent of income. For export production, the investor received the general ex- emption from custom duties on imports related to such production. Polonia companies may remit abroad each year 10 percent of invested capital plus the difference between exports and imports up to the amount of their profits in zlotys. Since January 1, 1989, all new foreign invest- ments in Poland have been governed by the Law on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 POLAND Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Par- ties of December 23, 1988, which replaced the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participa- tion. Existing Polonia companies could opt to avail themselves of the provisions of the new foreign investment law. Joint ventures founded under the law can have majority foreign participation and a foreign general manager. The statutory income tax rate is 40 percent but the joint venture is eligible for tax relief on exports, which can reduce the effective tax rate to 10 percent, and a tax holiday of three years.n For joint ventures in priority sectors, the tax holiday can be extended by up to an additional three years at the discretion of the Council of Ministers. Joint ventures can retain 85 percent of export pro- ceeds and sell balances retained in EDB auctions.12 The minimum capital requirement is the equivalent of US$50,000, and remittances abroad are limited to the difference between exports and imports up to the amount of the foreign partners' profits in zlotys. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates, or to acquire an inter- est in a foreign enterprise, must be approved by the relevant Minister, as well as by the Minister of Fi- nance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign ex- change permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. An annual limit of Zl 1 million is applied to all capital transfers. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be de- posited in a nonresident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with the permission of the foreign exchange authority. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to permission from the foreign exchange authorities. Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one nEffective January 1, 1990, the tax relief was eliminated. 12Effective January 1, 1990, both the retention privileges and the EDB auctions were abolished. enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the zloty was depreciated 24 times against a basket of convertible currencies, resulting in an exchange rate of Zl 6,500 = US$1 at the end of 1989, and 21 times against the transferable ruble, resulting in an exchange rate of Zl 1,650 = TR 1 at the end of 1989. Foreign exchange for import pay- ments was auctioned occasionally by Bank Hand- lowy, the Export Development Bank, and Bank PKO, S.A. March 15. A private foreign exchange market, consisting of foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus (kantory), began oper- ation. Administration of Control March 15. A new foreign exchange law came into effect, replacing the foreign exchange law of November 22,1983. It established foreign exchange surrender requirements for exporters, for individ- uals receiving pensions from abroad, and for for- eign tourists. Exporters were allowed to sell re- tained foreign exchange in auctions to other enterprises. The parallel exchange market was le- galized, and foreign exchange bureaus were al- lowed to buy foreign exchange from resident and nonresident individuals and sell it to resident indi- viduals at freely determined exchange rates. Imports and Exports January 1. A new ad valorem customs tariff for commercial imports, with uniform rates for Areas I and II and based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, entered into effect. The valuation basis for imports was the trans- action value, converted at the official exchange rate applicable on the date of declaration of the goods at customs. The duty rates for investment goods were lowered from 20-40 percent to 10-25 percent, whereas rates for raw materials and unprocessed goods remained about unchanged at 0-10 percent. The largest differentiation was maintained for agri- cultural imports, with low rates for basic inputs and higher ones for foods tuffs. High duty rates (of about 30 percent) were maintained for industrial consumer goods. As a result of these changes, the average tariff for MFN countries was reduced to 8 percent from 10.5 percent. Under the new tariff, rates for non-MFN imports were double the ones for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 401 MFN imports, with a rate of 25 percent ad valorem for those with an MFN rate of zero. March 1. The Export Development Fund (EDF) started operation, and the equalization settlement system was abolished. The resources of the EDF were customs duties (from Areas I and II), price corrections on imports from Area I, and a share of profits from the sale of centrally provided foreign exchange at auctions of the Export Development Bank. These resources were to be used to subsidize exports provided that subsidies for exports to Area I were limited to the amount of funds collected on price corrections on imports from Area I. March 14. Under a resolution from the Council of Ministers, enterprises were given 14 days to resell to a foreign exchange bank the portion of export pro- ceeds that may not be retained under the surrender regulations. September 19. A trade-liberalization agreement was signed with the EC envisaging reciprocal tariff reductions for agricultural goods and the phased elimination of quantitative restrictions on industrial goods during 1992-94. In early November 1989, the EC agreed to abolish the import quotas on industrial goods as of January 1, 1990, increase the foreign trade concessions, and accord Poland the GSP (Gen- eralized System of Preferences) status. In late November, the EC exempted Poland from quotas on such sensitive items as cars and shoes. October 5. The customs tariff rates on noncom- mercial imports were raised on average threefold. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles March 15. With the legalization of the parallel exchange market under the new foreign exchange law, foreign exchange at the official rate ceased to be provided for travel abroad, and the 200 percent sur- charge on the provision of convertible currencies for that purpose was abolished. Capital January 1. A new joint-venture law (Law on Eco- nomic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties of December 23,1988) entered into effect, replacing the Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Par- ticipation that had been in effect since July 1, 1986. Under the new law, joint ventures could have ma- jority foreign participation and a foreign general manager. The statutory income tax rate was estab- lished at 40 percent (compared with the previous rate of 50 percent), and the initial tax holiday was extended to three years from two years. For joint ventures in priority sectors, the tax holiday may be extended by up to an additional three years at the discretion of the Council of Ministers. Joint ventures were eligible for income tax reliefs and foreign ex- change retention on exports at the rate of 85 percent. The minimum capital requirement was the equiv- alent of US$50,000, and joint partners were permit- ted to transfer abroad their profits up to the dif- ference between exports and imports. November 9. An agreement to protect foreign in- vestment was signed between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany. With respect to Ger- man investment in Poland, the transfer of profits and dividends was allowed as follows: From January 1, 1993, 15 percent of 1992 profits. From January 1, 1994, 25 percent of 1993 profits. From January 1, 1995, 35 percent of 1994 profits. From January 1, 1996, 50 percent of 1995 profits. From January 1, 1997, 75 percent of 1996 profits. From January 1,1998,100 percent of 1997 profits. The sales or liquidation proceeds of German invest- ments made before the effective date of the treaty could be repatriated as follows: In the year of sale (at the earliest, on January 1, 1993), 20 percent. In the second year, 30 percent. In the third year, 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Es- cudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted monthly1 in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portu- gal's international merchandise trade. Depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the es- cudo are announced periodically by the authorities. During 1989, the monthly rate of devaluation was 0.25 percent in order to reach an annual rate of depreciation of 3.0 percent. On December 29, 1989, the official basic rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 149.841 per US$1. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies2 are determined during the fixing session, in which the Bank of Portugal and the authorized banks participate. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. A tax of 0.9 percent on all sales of foreign exchange is collected by the commercial banks. Commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal, among themselves, with other domestic nonbank economic agents, and with banks abroad. Spot or forward foreign exchange operations are carried out at freely negotiated ex- change rates, and the maximum period allowed for forward transactions is one year. Foreign exchange operations between banks and nonbank economic agents are always linked to purchases or sales of foreign exchange with escudos as a result of imports or exports of goods, services, current invisibles, or capital movements. There are no restrictions on for- eign exchange deals among banks in Portugal and banks abroad except forward purchases of escudos from nonresidents, which are not authorized. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange deals in the interbank foreign exchange market. Foreign ex- change transactions of commercial banks with the Bank of Portugal are, in principle, limited to the spot market. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Bank of Portugal for the 1 Since 1977, except from December 1985 to April 1986. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas (which are pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 = HK$1), Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. foreign exchange positions of banks in terms of for- eign currencies. On January 1, 1988, the Bank of Portugal became a participant in the European Monetary Coopera- tion Fund (EMCF), enabling it to participate in the mechanism for the creation of official ECUs through swaps of 20 percent of its gold and dollar reserves. These swaps are renewable every three months so as to ensure that contributions to the EMCF repre- sent at least 20 percent of the reserves of the Bank of Portugal. Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 12, 1988. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks autho- rized for this purpose. Foreign trade policy is formulated and imple- mented by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Direcgao-Geral do Comercio Externo in this Ministry is responsible for administering trade con- trols, and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled from a nonresident account with a resident bank in the quoted currencies (see footnote 2) or in U.S. dollars. Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident ac- count. The Portuguese escudo may be accepted as the currency of settlement for exports of goods, services, and capital transfers to Portugal. Nonresident Accounts In 1988, the Bank of Portugal issued new regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts in escudos and in foreign currencies. The interest paid on emi- grants' savings accounts and joint accounts with residents is the same as that paid by credit institu- tions on residents' deposits having the same matu- rity. Interest rates on time deposit accounts in for- eign currencies are established by agreement between the credit institution and the emigrant. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 403 The interest earned on all types of emigrants' de- posits is taxed at the rate of 7.5 percent a year. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Escudos The opening of nonresident accounts in escudos is free. They must be non-interest-bearing demand accounts, and exceptions must be especially autho- rized by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be cred- ited, without the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal, with (1) the amount of escudos corre- sponding to transfers from abroad or sales of for- eign currency and other means of payments de- nominated in foreign currencies; (2) the amount of escudos corresponding to payments to nonresi- dents of Portuguese imports of goods and services as well as outflows of private capital duly authorized by current legislation; and (3) transfers from other nonresident accounts in escudos. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be freely debited for (1) transfers abroad resulting from the purchase of foreign currency with escudos; (2) payments to residents for Portuguese exports of goods, services, current invisibles, and private cap- ital outflows, duly authorized by current legislation; and (3) transfers to other nonresident accounts in escudos. For credit operations not specified above, the authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal. 2. Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currency Opening and transactions of nonresident ac- counts in foreign currency —demand accounts and time accounts up to one year —are not restricted. Time accounts of more than one year require special authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Interest rates are freely negotiable. Accounts may be de- nominated in any foreign currency acceptable to the banks. 3. Emigrants' Accounts Portuguese emigrants may open three types of deposit accounts: emigrants' savings accounts (time accounts in escudos); joint accounts with residents (deposit or time accounts in escudos); and time deposit accounts in foreign currency. a. Emigrants' savings accounts may be credited with the equivalent amount in escudos of remit- tances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, with the equivalent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit institutions by emi- grants, with transfers from other accounts of the same owner (emigrants' savings accounts or ac- counts in foreign currency), and with interest due on such deposits. These accounts may be debited without restriction. b. Joint accounts with residents are similar to resi- dents' deposit accounts and can be in the form of either demand or time deposits. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad (similar to crediting emigrants' savings deposits) or with funds from domestic sources. These accounts may be debited without restriction, except for transfers to emigrants' savings accounts or abroad. Transfers abroad are subject to the regulations that apply to current transfers. c. Time deposit accounts in foreign currencies may be credited with remittances from abroad, with sales of external means of payment by emigrants, and with transfers from other accounts in foreign currency of the same owner and with interest due. These accounts may be debited without restriction. Interest income from all types of emigrants' de- posits is taxed at the rate of 3.3 percent a year. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency The opening of resident accounts in foreign cur- rency requires special authorization from the Bank of Portugal, unless the holder is a bank. Without prior authorization, commercial banks may open, at home or abroad, demand accounts or time accounts up to one year in any currency at freely negotiated interest rates. Imports and Import Payments Import declarations are issued for statistical sur- veillance purposes and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific condi- tions, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer. For imports free of quantitative restriction, the importer is required to present the import contract and Form 8 of EC (European Communities) Single Customs Declaration to obtain the foreign exchange necessary to settle the contract. For agricultural products covered by a common market organiza- tion, the EC may require an import certificate. For imports subject to quantitative restrictions, an im- port license is required. The validity of the import declaration is 6 months for customs clearance pur- poses, and the settlement period is 12 months. Pay- ments after one year of customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. According to the Act of Accession of Portugal to the European Communities, imports of some agri- cultural products are subject to temporary restric- tions when originating in EC and third countries. Several industrial products are subject to quantita- tive restrictions only when originating in third ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 PORTUGAL countries. A more extensive restricted list, which applies to Japan, includes manufactured raw mate- rials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invis- ibles must be made through credit institutions au- thorized to operate in foreign exchange and are generally free of quantitative restrictions, although prior verification by the Bank of Portugal or other credit institutions properly authorized is required. For most transactions, ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized credit institutions may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the authorized credit institutions may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30 million a transaction for most types of invisibles. For tourism and other private travel, they have been allowed to grant any amount in foreign currency since March 1, 1989. However, whenever requested by the customs authorities, travelers residing in Portu- gal must produce documents proving acquisition of foreign currency on a regular basis in excess of the equivalent of Esc 500 million. In addition, tourists may take out of the country Esc 10,000 in domestic currency for each trip.3 The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Ap- plications must be submitted to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above- mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and divi- dends and the repatriation of proceeds of liquida- tion of direct foreign investment in Portugal are free of restrictions, although prior declaration to the Bank of Portugal is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports, which are not subject to quantitative restrictions under EC regulations, are free of restric- tions. The export of a few commodities may be re- stricted, mainly to ensure adequate supplies to do- mestic industries and to avoid depletion of local 3The use of credit cards abroad has been liberalized. However, legislation in force envisages the possibility of reimposing restric- tions on the use of credit cards by the Bank of Portugal whenever deemed necessary. Also, payments of travel and accommodation expenses abroad for tourism purposes have been liberalized if paid through a Portuguese travel agency. resources. These exports require an export license as do iron scraps. Exports without concomitant for- eign exchange inflow require prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of their export proceeds within specified periods. The period for settlement of merchandise exports is, as a rule, fixed at six months from the date of customs clearance. Pay- ment of commission expenses abroad and freight, insurance, or other charges is subject to the regula- tions that govern payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may freely receive pay- ments in escudos and in foreign currency for invis- ibles from residents of countries with which Portu- gal does not have special clearing arrangements. Such receipts must be effected through credit in- stitutions and do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coins for settlement of external transactions. There are no limits on the amount of domestic currency notes resident and nonresident travelers may bring into the country. Capital As of January 1, 1986, the effective date of Portu- gal's accession to the EC, foreign exchange regula- tions distinguish between capital transactions with residents of EC member countries and residents of non-EC member countries, although in most cases the distinction is not relevant in practice. Most pay- ments will be free of restrictions after a transitional period of four to seven years, depending on the type of transaction. Foreign direct investments in Portu- gal are permitted in all sectors except those that, under the general law, are closed to private enter- prise corporations. Since July 1986, the new foreign investment regulations stipulate that new direct in- vestment projects are subject only to prior declara- tion to the Portuguese Foreign Trade Institute and will be considered approved if the Institute does not reply within 60 days. However, foreign direct in- vestment in the form of long-term loans must be verified in advance by the Bank of Portugal. In both cases, in 1988 new foreign direct investment by EC residents of less than ECU 2.1 million was automat- ically approved, and this amount will be increased by ECU 0.3 million a year until 1990, when foreign direct investments will be free of restrictions. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 405 transfer of the proceeds of liquidation of foreign direct investment including capital gains is free of restrictions. Foreign direct investments in EC countries by Portuguese residents require special authorization until 1993, when they will be free of restrictions. However, since November 1988, investments in EC and other member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are liberalized up to Esc 50 million. Real estate may be freely purchased in Portugal since January 1, 1986, except for housing already built and land for agricultural purposes, which must be authorized by the Bank of Portugal until 1991. The proceeds of their liquidation could be freely transferred up to ECU 140,000 in 1988, and this ceiling will be increased by ECU 20,000 a year until 1991. Purchases of real estate in EC countries by Por- tuguese residents will be free of restrictions as of 1993. Purchases by nonresidents of domestic se- curities quoted in the stock exchange have been free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. Purchases by Portuguese residents of securities quoted in the stock exchange and issued by EC residents will continue to require special authorization from the Bank of Portugal until 1991. However, residents are allowed to invest in foreign securities listed in stock exchanges of OECD member countries within the following limits: (1) investment and pension funds, 20 percent of their total portfolio; (2) insurance com- panies, 10 percent of their technical reserves; (3) banks and financial institutions, 10 percent of their total portfolio; (4) nonfinancial corporations, 5 percent of their total portfolio; and (5) individuals, Esc 4 million. Subscription of securities issued by the European Investment Bank, the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC), the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM), and the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was free of re- strictions up to ECU 21 million in 1988, and this ceiling will be increased by ECU 3 million a year until 1991, when such purchases will become free of restrictions. Most trade credits and personal capital transfers have also been free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. Other types of capital transactions must have prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal and, in the case of capital transactions exceeding Esc 5 million and with a maturity of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. The revisions of Portugal's reservations concern- ing the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooper- ation and Development) Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements have generally extended liberal- ization of capital transactions with the OECD coun- tries, which is similar to that extended to the EC member countries. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of bullion or coins and unworked gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, must be authorized in advance by the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement September 29. The Portuguese escudo was in- cluded in the ECU basket. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) June 22. The customs tar iffs on imports of poly- urethanes and certain types of motors from EC countries were abolished. July 17. New quality control standards were im- posed on imports of low-voltage electronic equipment. September 6. The customs tariffs on imports of thermolaminates and ferrous alloys from EC coun- tries were abolished. October 20. The customs tariffs on imports of cer- tain beef products from EC countries were lowered. Payments for Invisibles March 28. Restrictions on the acquisition of foreign currency by residents were liberalized, and tourist travelers were allowed to take abroad an amount equivalent to up to Esc 100,000. May 2. For most types of invisibles, the limits on payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements were in- creased from the foreign exchange equivalent of Esc 7.5 million to Esc 30 million a transaction. September 8. The registration of contracts on tech- nology may be made with the Bank of Portugal within one month of their conclusion, but must always be made before the realization of foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 Capital PORTUGAL February 2. The limit above which medium- and long-term capital transactions would require the ap- proval of the Minister of Finance was increased to Esc 5 billion from Esc 800 million. March 20. Foreign exchange swap operations ceased to enjoy special treatment under the regula- tions on the banking credit ceiling. April 29. The functions of the Foreign Investment Institute were transferred to the Portuguese Foreign Trade Institute. The limits applicable to investments in EC and OECD countries that are allowed freely were increased to Esc 50 million. September 20. Regulations governing investment in foreign securities were liberalized, whereby the limits for institutional and individual investors were increased to Esc 4 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31,1989, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The commercial banks' buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies are based on the Mon- etary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the com- mercial banking sector, importers may purchase for- eign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange con- trol authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, fire- arms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Oth- erwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Im- ports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC); im- ports of steel are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 20 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be ex- ported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Foreign participation in small- and medium-scale agri- cultural and industrial enterprises with invested capital of less than QR 250,000 is prohibited. For- eign participation is permitted in large-scale enter- prises provided that Qatar nationals control at least 51 percent of capital unless the enterprise is viewed as facilitating the provision of a public service, in which case the Qatar participation requirement may be waived. In addition to this requirement, the en- terprise must have a domestic value added of at least 40 percent. Foreigners other than nationals of member states of the GCC are prohibited from busi- ness ownership in the trade sector. For major indus- trial projects, it is government policy to assume a minimum of 70 percent ownership. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 QATAR Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the selling and buying of gold and pre- cious metals are subject to import license and customs duty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate used for all trade transactions in convertible currencies is the commercial rate, which is defined in terms of a basket of six currencies reflecting the geographical pattern of Romania's trade and payments. Weekly adjustments are made in the leu/U.S. dollar rate (and, correspondingly, in the rates for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to maintain the central point on the basket peg. On December 29, 1989, the commercial ex- change rate was lei 14.44 = US$1. The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 19 other curren- cies defined as "fully convertible"1 and for the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israeli new sheqel, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. For members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),2 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the currency used for commercial transactions is the transferable ruble (TR); on December 29, 1989, the transferable ruble rate was lei 15.50 = TR 1. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insur- ance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. The commercial exchange rate applies to all trade and most services transactions, and the noncommercial exchange rate applies to non-trade-related services and transfers, with the exception of travel through tourist organi- zations. Capital transactions are settled at the com- mercial rate. The noncommercial rate is pegged to the same basket of currencies as the commercial rate and is also adjusted on a weekly basis; the rate was lei 8.88 = US$1 on December 29, 1989. For the nontransport component of the expenses for individual travel to nonsocialist countries and Yugoslavia" and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodi- cals and legal penalties, a 100 percent tax is levied on purchases of foreign exchange. For nontrade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, spe- cial exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement; for transactions with the U.S.S.R., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. For persons working abroad in technical assis- tance jobs or as professionals, such as medical doc- tors, daily allowances are paid in foreign exchange, and any accumulated surpluses can be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Roma- nians working in international organizations or joint ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are required to repatriate a part of it as a contribution to the fund for training of staff involved in international cooperation and for the maintenance of their families at home. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by foreign trade en- terprises and other authorized units. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Inter- national Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports are sold to the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency re- quired for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is administered by the Min- istry of Finance, the National Bank, and the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Ro- mania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lux- embourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 3The countries with which bilateral payments agreements were in force as of December 31,1989 were Albania, Bangladesh, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ghana, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Settlements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam take place through the multilateral pay- ments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 ROMANIA exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with Tur- key are made in U.S. dollars under a credit agree- ment. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, the National Bank, or with foreign banks having branch offices in Romania. These accounts are of three kinds. A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency, or in lei obtained for convert- ible currencies, from the selling of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver. B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A-, B-, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were de- rived and for payments within Romania. C-Ac- counts may be debited only for domestic transac- tions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresi- dent customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevail- ing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians work- ing abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building or purchasing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are ex- pressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. For certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be depos- ited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the noncommercial ex- change rate. Imports and Exports The administrative framework for planning and executing foreign trade in Romania is provided in the Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 12 of Decem- ber 1980). International economic activity is organized and carried out in accordance with the principle of working people's self-management and self-administration of economic, financial, and for- eign exchange. The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but distinguishes between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Coopera- tion for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discrimina- tory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports, with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, or for reasons of national defense and the security of the State in accordance with the provisions of the Gen- eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing en- terprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether im- port payments are to be made in convertible cur- rency or under bilateral payments arrangements, and, in the latter case, the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for investment in complex installations (assemblies, subassemblies, machinery, equip- ment, and spare parts) are delivered to the buying units at domestic prices that are equal to the customs value (calculated by multiplying the exter- nal price by the commercial rate), plus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 411 less the commercial discount. The difference be- tween prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade unit. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. Customs duties are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assem- blies, subassemblies, and spare parts for produc- tion, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 tariff positions and subpositions. The customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Decree No. 337/1981, issued on November 26,1981, increased tariffs on personal imports of certain items into Romania above the value limits for the specified goods. The import goods prohibited to individuals include passenger cars with high fuel consumption, minibuses, fire- arms, and air conditioners. Customs duties on per- sonal imports of a number of consumer durables, such as motorcycles and electrical appliances, are levied at rates of between 100 percent and 300 per- cent above the applicable customs ta r i f f. Private enterprises may retain 50 percent of for- eign exchange receipts from exports and must sell the remainder to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or indi- vidual authorization, given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, for- eign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel out- side the socialist countries, an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult. In addition, tourist agencies may orga- nize group or individual trips payable in lei. Re- ceipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the for- eign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. With specified exceptions, travelers with perma- nent residence in nonsocialist countries must con- vert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)4 during their stay 4The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Irish pounds, Israeli new sheqalim, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (1) holders of diplomatic service passports and their families; (2) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their families; (3) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (4) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (5) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international or- ganizations having their headquarters in Romania; (6) children under 14; (7) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scien- tific cooperation and their families; (8) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (9) foreign personnel in assembly work or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (10) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (11) Ro- manian citizens possessing a valid Romanian pass- port who are domiciled abroad; (12) persons resi- dent abroad without a valid Romanian passport but who have not renounced their Romanian citizen- ship; and (13) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories (10)-(12). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in con- vertible currencies. Foreign tourists may purchase domestically produced and certain imported con- sumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coins by travelers are pro- hibited, with the exception of those coming from CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea; these latter may each bring in or take out up to lei 500 a trip in accordance with agreements concluded with these countries. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change must be authorized by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permit- ted. For certain established categories, such as in- heritances, reciprocal agreements have been con- cluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 ROMANIA The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 percent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agree- ment, the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transac- tions. The ownership by physical persons, for do- mestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1989 and 1990 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system during 1989. The following changes occurred during the first quarter of 1990. Exchange Arrangement February 1. The commercial and noncommercial exchange rates were united at the rate of lei 21 = US$1. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 20. Foreign currency accounts of Roma- nian citizens maintained at the National Bank and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade would bear interest; the balances on these accounts were per- mitted to be used by either the holder or other physical or juridical persons designated by the ac- count holder. Payments for Invisibles March 14. Foreign investors were permitted to transfer abroad annually profits equivalent to up to 8 percent of their invested capital. Exports and Export Proceeds February 5. Private enterprises were allowed to retain 50 percent of foreign exchange receipts from exports, and the remainder was required to be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade at the ex- change rate prevailing on the day of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The requirement that travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries con- vert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies) during their stay in Romania was eliminated. January 14. Two thirds of foreign currency receipts earned from sales of newspapers and magazines, publication of advertisements, publicity, and dona- tions were permitted to be retained by the publish- ing houses and used to cover their foreign currency expenses. Education units were granted the right to retain two thirds of the foreign currency they earned and to use them to pay for expenses in foreign currency. January 20. Foreign currency receipts of Roma- nian citizens from pensions, donations, compensa- tions, and aid were allowed to be used without restriction. February 3 and March 21. The National Institute for Economic Research and the Central Union of Con- sumer and Credit Cooperatives were permitted to retain and use up to 50 percent of their foreign currency receipts, and the remainder was required to be surrendered to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Capital March 14. The following measures aiming at pro- moting foreign capital investments in Romania were introduced: (1) permission to establish com- panies with up to 100 percent foreign capital owner- ship; (2) exemption from the tax on profit for a two- year period, and a reduction in the tax on profit by 50 percent for the following three-year period; and (3) a reduction in the tax on profits by 50 percent for an additional five-year period in respect of profits reinvested in Romania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 102.71 = SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the mid- point between buying and selling exchange rates quoted by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Calculations of exchange rates against foreign currencies are based on the SDR value of the U.S. dollar and other cur- rencies as published by the International Monetary Fund two business days earlier. On December 29, 1989, the midpoint between the buying and selling rate for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar was RF 77.62 per US$1. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent above and 1 percent below the midpoint, respec- tively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Substantial commis- sions are applied to purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange and foreign trade policies are, in principle, determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, con- sisting of the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members; how- ever, this Committee is inoperative at the present time. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the National Bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire) and Kenya. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) are made through the PTA's clear- inghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank trans- fer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or tele- graphic transfers. Exchange transactions with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments On October 1, 1987, a new Tariff Code was pro- mulgated. Imports from South Africa are pro- hibited. For reasons of public security, certain cate- gories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval by the competent authorities, regardless of origin and value. Imports of narcotics are prohibited. For reasons of health, the importa- tion of veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insec- ticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Minis- try of Health. All imports valued (c.i.f.) at over RF 100,000 require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000, if payment is required in for- eign exchange. Import licenses for 16 items, includ- ing cement, butter, cheese, corrugated iron, plastic products, radio sets, blankets, toilet and powdered soap, candles, insecticides, and certain woven fab- rics of man-made fibers, have been suspended. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 per- cent of the f.o.b. value on import licenses that in- volve use of official foreign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to inspection by interna- tional agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 per- cent. The validation of other import licenses is sub- ject to a processing fee of RF 750 in each case. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. Unless otherwise specified, the approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 RWANDA months (six months in the case of vehicle parts). License applications are examined at the National Bank to prevent overinvoicing. Dealers of imported automobiles are required to provide after-sale ser- vice for the vehicles. Used automobiles can be im- ported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma in- voice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin1 prior to shipment, and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enter- prises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is re- quired for all payments for invisibles. Foreign ex- change is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and ex- ports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except in cases of payment by means of documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company established under Rwanda law. Transfers of the salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con- tract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and after de- duction of local expenses. These expenses are calcu- lated by one of two formulas, at the employee's option: (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay after tax and social security contributions, with a minimum of RF 50,000 a month; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a 1 Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, People's Republic of China, Com- oros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, are also made net of taxes and after deduction for local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is levied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a minimum of RF 750. Net profits and dividends due to nonresi- dents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Only traveler's checks in Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (UAPTA) are issued to travelers to PTA member states (except Kenya). Foreign account holders traveling in the PTA region may purchase foreign media of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTA. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing exchange regulations. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the Na- tional Bank. Authorizations for the purchase of for- eign exchange for tickets and foreign exchange re- lating to travel for leisure, family, or religious reasons are suspended until further notice. Travel for business and official purposes is restricted to the essential minimum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one economy-class air- line ticket every two years of actual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is permitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full- fare ticket. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign bank notes. Com- mercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports, except trade samples, personal and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for cer- tification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 415 Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be col- lected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to ex- ports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the cen- tral banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within eight days of their collection. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Declaration of foreign exchange on entering Rwanda is obligatory. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic bank notes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfer relates to a for- eign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a for- eign national returning to his own country, pro- vided that he bought them with foreign exchange and sold them to a resident national. Enterprises considered to have national economic priority are exempted from the corporation tax for 5 to 15 years. Repatriation of dividends to foreign shareholders is allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows; licenses for retransfer of these foreign cur- rencies are valid for one year, but may be extended at the request of the beneficiary of financing. Out- ward transfer of proceeds from sales of real estate is suspended. Foreign refinancing of imports is sub- ject to guidelines limiting the number of eligible products, establishing a limit of 180 days from the date of shipment on the maturity of the financing, and specifying acceptable interest rates and commissions. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the competent minister. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1989 Proceeds from Invisibles December 1. Declaration of foreign exchange on entering Rwanda was made obligatory. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 29, 1989, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3, 1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency ac- counts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts can be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and can be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for im- ports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Carib- bean Common Market (CARicoM).2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are per- mitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, provided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 per- cent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Expc/ts and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB Currency Account or an approved U.S. dollar Foreign Currency Ac- count. Duties are levied on exports of lobster, sugar, and certain other products. aThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 417 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets, with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold both for numismatic and in- dustrial purposes. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 - US$1. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign ex- change by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1 percent. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agri- cultural products are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency dif- ferent from that of the country to which payment is to be made. irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Nonresident (External) Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dent individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in East- ern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be cred- ited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such ac- counts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after ap- proval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, including payment for imports. As funds in an External Account are nor- mally convertible into a foreign currency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A Foreign Currency Account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open Foreign Currency Accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or in- stitution) wishing to open a Foreign Currency Ac- count must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired foreign currency. All payments from a Foreign Currency Account require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts. This is to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 419 licenses. Certain other commodities require indi- vidual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments in foreign currency for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs en- try. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. In June 1981, St. Lucia adopted the new rules of origin that govern the eligibility for duty-free treat- ment of goods produced or manufactured in the CARICOM region. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) countries, certain imports for use in indus- try, agriculture, fishing, air and sea transport (un- der industrial incentive legislation), and items ex- empted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordinance. The rates of import duty in the ECCM tariff vary from 5 percent on certain basic food items to 70 percent on bay rum and firearms. A regional effort to harmonize the customs tariffs within the ECCM is currently under way, and it should be completed in time for the new harmo- nized tariffs to be introduced in the region on Jan- uary 1,1991. A stamp duty of 1 percent of the c.i.f. value had been levied on all imports, except fertil- izers for which the rate was Vs of 1 percent. In Octo- ber 1989, the stamp duty was replaced by a customs service charge of 2 percent of the c . i .f. value. Cer- tain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c .i .f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. For travel within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 per- cent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance premiums are subject to tax as follows: life insurance, 1.5 per- cent for residents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for resi- dents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any destination. Proceeds from exports must, in principle, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 percent of the f.o.b. is levied on banana exports. A special fee (called a terminal throughput charge) of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is nor- mally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a higher rate in the case of nonresi- dent purchasers. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments October 1. The stamp duty was replaced by a 2 per- cent customs service charge. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, re- spectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicovi)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- tances in foreign currency and with transfers from 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. other External Accounts. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Ca- ribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a Foreign Currency Account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to a 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Fi- nance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, when required, of the license. Ad- vance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. 4The ECCM is composed of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 421 Payments for Invisibles Payments for travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign ex- change may be made available up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased with the authorization of the Min- istry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance upon presen- tation of a written statement by a local medical prac- titioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treat- ment. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not the ticket is purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the ECCB area require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destina- tion of some agricultural goods included in the CAR- ICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which in some cases has dele- gated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Mar- keting Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate sit- uated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. On presentation of documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Minis- try of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines. The transfer of sums is normally limited to EC$20,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already resident in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their do- mestic operations requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of nine major trading partners of Sao Tome and Principe. The intervention cur- rency for the dobra is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, were Db 138.26 = US$1 and Db 142.47 = US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the cur- rencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the ar- rangements are as follows: on the opening of a letter of credit, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission to the National Bank of 0.5 percent. A stamp duty of Db 2 per Db 1,000 of import value, plus a flat Db 50, is also payable, as well as a postage levy of Db 50. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 150. On foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, varying according to the particular bank. In addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction, together with a stamp duty of Db 15. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 6.5 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges a commission of 0.25 percent when opening the letter of credit and a further 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addition, a postage levy of Db 500 is charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions come under the control of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Na- tional Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through this bank, with the exception of a 30 percent retention of earnings by exporters for import payments purposes (see Section below on Exports and Export Proceeds). Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Cape Verde, the People's Republic of China, and the German Democratic Republic. Under the agreement with the German Demo- cratic Republic covering the period 1986-89, Sao Tome and Principe imports building supplies, equipment, and raw materials for the construction and operation of the brewery and ceramics factory, as well as certain consumer goods, especially meat and automobile accessories. The quantity of these goods to be imported is specified in .annual pro- tocols under the agreement. In return, Sao Tome and Principe is required to export to the German Democratic Republic specified quantities of cocoa and copra annually. Transactions under the payments agreement with Cape Verde have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as re- ceipts and payments for various services and trans- fers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other reciprocal noninterest credits of US$200,000; it also states that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance will be redressed by appropriate trade transactions be- tween the two parties. Imports and Import Payments Registered importers (including all productive entities) holding approved import licenses are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Imports by the state-owned foreign trading enterprise ECOMEX are limited to beans, edible oil, milk, rice, sugar, and wheat flour; however, the private sector is free to import these items. Fuels and lubricants are im- ported by ENCO (the fuel enterprise), and medicines 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 423 are imported by ENAMED (the pharmaceutical enter- prise). Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Commerce and must be approved by the National Bank. For all imports, licenses are issued in accor- dance with Advance Import Registration Bulletins, which are valid for six months, but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign ex- change and the country's supply of foreign ex- change and economic development requirements. When importers open letters of credit, they are re- quired to lodge a deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the letters of credit; the remainder may be financed with a 120- day loan from the National Bank at an annual inter- est rate of 22 percent. Prepayment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved within limits established by the National Bank. These limits, which allow for additional amounts in justi- fiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medi- cal treatment abroad when local facilities are inade- quate; (2) transfers of remittances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under techni- cal cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Pur- chases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Individual expenditures on air- line tickets by private citizens for travel abroad may not exceed Db 40,000 in value over a three-year period. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before inde- pendence have been suspended. There are no lim- itations on remittances for subscriptions to periodi- cals and books, or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 20,000 for a period of one month. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances before 1980. Pay- ments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student may receive a special transfer of up to the equivalent of Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts may be granted if approved by the Minis- try of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent of value, or 4 percent if payment is made through a telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 20 is payable on all transactions. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c.i.f. or f .o .b. value of the ex- port. In general, private enterprises are allowed to export directly unless their price is lower than the minimum price obtained by ECOMEX for the same export. All export proceeds must be collected through the National Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export pro- ceeds in accounts with correspondent banks of the National Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code implemented in April 1986. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in ac- tivities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special autho- rization from the National Bank. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the exchange rate was adjusted in several stages, from Db 100 = US$1 on February 11 to Db 134 = US$1 on November 27. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 per- cent are allowed around the fixed relationship; these margins were suspended on July 22,1981. The mid- dle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Ara- bian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the International Monetary Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31,1989, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.750 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.740 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and sell- ing rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security.2 Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 12 percent and 20 percent; imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab aln addition, all imports from and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction, whether of a current or capital nature. 2Certain imports from Lebanon are subject at present to proof - of-origin requirements. States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempted, provided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and ex- port Saudi Arabian bank notes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. The Monetary Agency has issued guide- lines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Saudi Arabian Mone- tary Agency before inviting foreign banks to par- ticipate in riyal-denominated syndicated transac- tions inside or outside Saudi Arabia. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for par- ticipation by local banks in either riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad or foreign-currency- syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved for- eign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved for- eign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital in- vested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is ex- empt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 425 license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the excep- tion of gold of 14 karats or less, the import of which is prohibited. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments April 7. A customs tariff at the rate of 50 percent ad valorem was imposed on cigarettes and other tobacco products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 An exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill, depending on the amount, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transac- tions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward covers against exchange risk can be ob- tained by residents only in respect of imports of a specified category of goods. All forward covers against exchange risk are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Money and Credit (Ministry of Economy and Finance). Forward covers against ex- change risk can be provided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of for- eign exchange settlement as stipulated in the com- mercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of for- ward covers may be extended one time up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these aThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are free of any commission. countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval authority in re- spect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Ad- ministration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Export authorizations and prior import authorizations are issued for listed products by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Af- rica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent; such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Ac- count in Francs opened by the latter with an autho- rized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 427 the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by autho- rized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Is- rael and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored- nation treatment of all commercial partners of Sene- gal was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restrictions and prior authorization requirements for certain imports now apply only on the basis of the type of products, not on the basis of the country of origin or transshipment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agri- cultural policy, sanitation, or protection of certain sectors (cement, fertilizers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c . i . f . ). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods to Senegal if a documen- tary credit is opened, or the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on pre- sentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, pay- ments for imports may not be made prior to proper documentation regarding customs clearance. In the case of advance payments, foreign exchange may not be acquired until the contractual date of such payments. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange authorization submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applications for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be taken. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months following the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of for- eign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any re- purchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, dia- monds, cereals, peanuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated pre- cious metals and articles made of them and precious metal products, and costume jewelry), exports do not require prior authorization. Certain nontradi- tional exports to nonmember countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible for an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, includ- ing members of the WAMU and countries of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 SENEGAL Operations Account Area, must normally be col- lected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minis- try of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Sene- galese Government, and (2) shares that are identi- cal with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special con- trols are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and in- stitutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. For- eign direct investments in Senegal4 must be de- clared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance be- fore such investments are made. The Ministry has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Senegal, must be reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) borrowings constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) bor- rowings contracted by authorized banks. The repay- ment of borrowings not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance if the borrowing itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if it was exempt from authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export indus- tries established in the Dakar export-processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of 3Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4Including those made by companies in Senegal that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 429 gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Bro- kers in precious metals require an authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to con- duct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of non- monetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Directorate of Handicrafts (Min- istry of Industrial Development and Handicrafts) and the Directorate of Foreign Trade (Ministry of Commerce). Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (in- cluding the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR, These rates are circulated daily to the commercial banks by the Central Bank. On December 29, 1989, the buy- ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Seychelles for the pound sterling were SR 8.7499 and SR 8.8825, respectively, per £ stg.l. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on pur- chases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in pounds sterling and other curren- cies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective curren- cies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. The Sey- chelles Marketing Board exercises controls on for- eign trade and domestic marketing; its Import Divi- sion and Import Control Unit perform regulatory and commercial roles. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports. Importers are required to obtain import li- censes from the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import Control section of the Seychelles Marketing Board. Certain basic food items (including sugar, flour, oil, mar- garine, rice, and animal feeds) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade and service tax, at rates ranging from 10 percent to 375 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 percent to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses. Exports of copra, cinnamon, and fish (the principal exports) are controlled by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Residents may export goods without exchange con- trol formality to any country except South Africa. There is no regulation governing the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent res- idents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tion. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, increased investment in existing en- tities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment, as prescribed from December 1988. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors—i.e., agricul- ture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 431 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has is- sued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the f if th anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 to mark the World Fish- eries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Or- ganization (FAO) issued in April 1984; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women issued in Feb- ruary 1986; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence issued in June 1986; (6) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the fifth of June 1977 Liberation issued in June 1987; and (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank issued in December 1988. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Le- onean Leone, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Le 65 per US$1.1 On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates were Le 65.00 and Le 66.00, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance, in consultation with the Bank of Sierra Leone, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone with the assistance of the commercial banks. Applications for foreign exchange for invisible pay- ments are subject to the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in the currency of the export- ing country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Receipts from exports to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an External Account in the currency of the importing country or in any 1 On Janua ry 15,1990, the exchange rate was adjusted to Le 120 per US$1; on April 21, 1990, a market-determined exchange rate system was introduced, under which foreign exchange may be freely purchased f rom and sold to commercial banks by their customers at freely negotiated rates. specified currency.2 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in convertible currencies and surren- dered to the Bank of Sierra Leone through the bank- ing system, except for nonperforming crops, mainly palm kernels, kola nuts, ginger, piassava, ground nuts, cashew nuts, fruits, and medical plants, for which exporters can retain 100 percent of export proceeds. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts denominated in U.S. dollars with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which no minimum balance has been stipulated, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad and may be debited to meet local ex- penditures of the account holder. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permit- ted in accordance with the regulations governing payments abroad for goods and services and are subject to the supervision of the Bank of Sierra Leone. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated External Accounts. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods originating from South Af- rica and of a number of specified goods are pro- hibited.3 All other goods may be imported freely without a license. Authority for approving transac- tions is delegated to the commercial banks. All ap- plications for purchase of foreign exchange for the importation of goods must be supported by a pro forma invoice and current certificate of income and 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Cabin and pastry biscuits, confectionery, bouillon cubes, car- bonated and aerated mineral water, mattresses, plastic carrier bags, unmanufac tured tobacco, wooden fu rn i tu re and parts, synthetic wines, jams and marmalade, f ru it juices, candles, matches, laundry soap, cocoa powder, steel tanks, fish (chilled, frozen, dried, and smoked), Crustacea and mollusks, fresh vege- tables, fresh tomatoes, eggs, and chicken (frozen). 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 433 should be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Importation of goods financed with im- porters' own foreign exchange resources has been permitted since May 23, 1988. This system permits importation to be made on the basis of letters of credit established with a local commercial bank, and importers must comply with all regulations pertain- ing to imports. Products must be deemed essential to the economic and social needs of the country. All applications for such imports must be submitted to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. Imports are subject to an invoice entry fee of 5 percent and an import-licensing fee of 5 percent, both of which are calculated on the c . i .f. value of imports; the fees for imports from the member countries of the Economic Community of West Afri- can States are one half of these rates. The fees are payable at the time of importation. A turnover tax at the rate of 10 percent of the invoice value is levied on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 a year for an adult person must be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for 12 months, are issued by the Ministry of Mines. All exports, except agricultural and marine products, must be effected either under letters of credit opened with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone or on a prepayment basis with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. In principle, all exporters are required to fully surrender foreign exchange earnings to the com- mercial banks. However, certain retention arrange- ments exist for some of the main exporters. The exportation of gold and diamonds, which had been carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone in the case of gold and the Government Gold and Diamond Office (GGDO) in the case of diamonds, was liberalized in March 1989. Under the new policy, licensed export- ers of diamonds are required to surrender 100 per- cent of the value of the goods exported through their bank, which will ensure that 60 percent of the export proceeds are transferred to the Bank of Sierra Leone and 40 percent are retained for the account of the exporter. Proceeds from exports of gold are re- quired to be surrendered to the exporter's bank within 14 days of the date of export. On receipt of proceeds, the commercial bank will transfer 60 per- cent of the proceeds to the Bank of Sierra Leone and retain the remainder for the account of the exporter. Exporters of agricultural and marine products are required to open letters of credit at the Bank of Sierra Leone, which will ensure that 40 percent of the export proceeds are transferred to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone (of the exporters choice) and 60 percent are retained at the Bank of Sierra Leone. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank within three days. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 2,500 for each traveler. Residents receiving foreign currencies or entering Sierra Leone with foreign exchange must exchange these currencies into domestic currency at a commercial bank within three days. Nonresidents bringing foreign exchange into Sierra Leone must exchange or deposit it with a bank within three days. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonresi- dents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of se- curities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Si- erra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without per- mission. Where permission has been given for se- curities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to per- sons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordi- nance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act, 1983 provide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies un- dertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or control- ling certain types of business. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 SIERRA LEONE Residents of Sierra Leone must either sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer or hold a foreign currency account with a commer- cial bank in Sierra Leone. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of ster- ling assets held prior to June 24, 1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area, and any in- come therefrom may be retained in the former Ster- ling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area se- curities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted un- der this permission is exempt from deposit require- ments. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely pur- chase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not al- lowed to hold gold in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Exports of the following articles are pro- hibited: those exceeding the leone equivalent of US$1,000; those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, or pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the leone equivalent of US$1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments July 1. Import surcharges were abolished. An im- port turnover tax at the rate of 10 percent of the invoice value was imposed on all imports. September 1. The importation of the following products was banned: cabin and pastry biscuits, confectionery, bouillon cubes, carbonated and aer- ated mineral water, mattresses, plastic carrier bags, unmanufactured tobacco, wooden furniture and parts, synthetic wines, jams and marmalade, fruit juices, candles, matches, laundry soap, cocoa powder, steel tanks, fish (chilled, frozen, dried, and smoked), Crustacea and mollusks, fresh vegetables, fresh tomatoes, eggs, and chicken (frozen). December 15. Unless specifically prohibited, im- ports of all products were allowed without a license. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. The exportation of gold and diamonds, which had been carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone (in the case of gold) and the GGDO (in the case of diamonds), was liberalized. Under the new policy, licensed exporters of diamonds were re- quired to surrender 100 percent of the value of the goods to be exported through their bank, which would ensure that 60 percent of the export proceeds were transferred to the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone and 40 percent were retained for the account of the exporter. Proceeds from exports of gold were required to be surrendered to the exporter's bank within 14 days of the date of shipment. On receipt of proceeds, the commercial bank would transfer 60 percent of the proceeds to the Bank of Sierra Leone, and retain 40 percent for the account of the exporter. Exporters of agricultural and marine prod- ucts were required to open letters of credit at the Bank of Sierra Leone, which would ensure that 40 percent of the export proceeds were transferred to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone and 60 percent were retained at the Bank of Sierra Leone. December 15. Export licenses, except for annual licenses for gold and diamond exporters, were abolished. During the year, the exchange rate was adjusted on several occasions from Le 44.00 = US$1 on Jan- uary 9, to Le 65.00 - US$1 on April 3. Resident and Nonresident Accounts December 13. Foreign currency accounts were al- lowed to be maintained by residents in Sierra Leone subject to certain conditions. Proceeds from Invisibles December 13. The limit on the importation of do- mestic bank notes was increased to Le 2,500 from Le 250. Gold March 1. The exportation of gold by the private sector was permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dol- lar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and the exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and all other cur- rencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Authority of Sin- gapore monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies with the objective of maintaining a low and stable domestic inflation rate. The closing interbank buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 29, 1989 were S$1.9000 and S$1.9010, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all curren- cies, with no limits on maturities or underlying transactions. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an ac- tive short-term currency swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely in- terchangeable, at par and without charge, in Sin- gapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsi- bility for exchange control matters. The Trade De- velopment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import and export licensing requirements for a very small number of products. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are du- tiable. The highest duties are levied on liquors, to- bacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a modest duty of 5 percent ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa or any territory administered by it are prohibited. Im- port licenses are required for rice, irrespective of origin, and for all imports originating in, or con- signed from, Albania, the German Democratic Re- public, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. Licenses for imports from the latter countries are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports of Singapore origin, e.g., textiles and textile products, are subject to quantitative re- strictions and other nontariff barriers in the import- ing countries, particularly the United States, Can- ada, Norway, and the countries of the European Communities. Export licenses are required for gra- nite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no re- striction on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange con- trols in 1978, Singapore residents, including corpo- rations, are allowed to make payments in all curren- cies to any country outside Singapore without any 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 SINGAPORE restrictions. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks and merchant banks intending to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents or to residents for use out- side Singapore must have the approval of the Mone- tary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with their AMUs because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An AMU is a separate accounting entity of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income; these institutions are prohibited from transacting in Singapore dollars. There are no restrictions on investments, whether direct or portfolio, in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Income earned by nonresi- dents on funds placed by them with an approved fund manager in Singapore for investment in ap- proved assets is exempted from tax under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Fund Management. Government approval is required for foreigners investing in residential and other properties (in- cluding vacant land) other than those zoned or ap- proved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own oc- cupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and com- panies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can be traded on the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a London basis where delivery of 995 fine gold is made in London; trading also takes place in Kilobar gold with settlement of 999.9 fine gold being made in Singapore, with appropriate adjustments made for the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Sol- omon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate pre- vailing at the end of the previous month. The Cen- tral Bank provides the commercial banks daily with the limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in their transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings with the public were US$0.4126 and US$0.4116, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover facility is mainly for bona fide trade or trade- related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent residents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars and for periods of one to six months. The Central Bank also provides the commercial banks daily with the limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commer- cial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to ten basis points above or below the Central Bank's for- ward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are re- garded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a cit- izen of a foreign country and intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indi- cates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. How- ever, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provi- sions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands that are expressed in a foreign currency may be met only by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be re- ceived in any foreign currency or in Solomon Is- lands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required for the crediting of these accounts from Solomon Is- lands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions without refer- ence to the Central Bank. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 SOLOMON ISLANDS Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for ser- vices and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Per- manent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing permanently out- side Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Central Bank. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control formality, provided that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this Gen- eral Authority are that payments for exported goods are received within three months of the date of export, that the export price is not less than the price that an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive, and that the proceeds are sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the Gen- eral Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consign- ment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of cur- rency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned in- vestment capital, repayment of overseas borrow- ings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Central Bank is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Ap- proval is normally not given for the acquisition of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign se- curities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or in- creased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit is- sued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement September 1. The arrangement for exchange rate adjustments was modified to permit the Central Bank to make discretionary adjustments within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month, instead of up to a total of 2 percent during any four- week period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Somalia's main trading partners. The official ex- change rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the relative rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. On December 30,1989, the official buying and selling rates were So. Sh. 920 and So. Sh. 938, respectively, per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to imports of goods and services and debt- service payments of the Government. The exchange rate in the free market is negotiated freely between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,1 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank operating as the autho- rized dealer of the Central Bank in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sector. The commercial bank also does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, al- though this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade controls. The state-trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC), is responsible for the im- port and distribution of certain commodities re- ceived under aid programs. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments., Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling.2 Settlements with all other countries must Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. 2This bilateral payments agreement has been inoperative since 1977. be made in Somali shillings or in specified curren- cies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and ex- ternal accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, interna- tional institutions, and nonresidents. External ac- counts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both resi- dents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. Such accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in such accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations, as well as for merchandise im- port payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through these exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports in export/import accounts. Funds in such accounts may be sold to importers holding export/ import accounts and be used only for merchandise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items pro- hibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The Somali Oil Refinery is responsible for the import of crude petroleum, and the National Petroleum Agency is responsible for imports of other fuels and fuel products. Importa- tion and distribution of petroleum products by capa- ble entrepreneurs in the private sector are permit- ted, provided that they have safe storage and distribution facilities. All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at the commercial 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 SOMALIA bank on the basis of foreign exchange made avail- able for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the letter of credit. A non-interest-bearing advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program Credits of the International Development Association (IDA) are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit re- quests for foreign exchange, to be accompanied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount re- quested. The official exchange rate applies to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceed the available funds, foreign exchange is allo- cated proportionally among importers. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for current invisibles through ex- ternal accounts, as well as through the commercial bank selling foreign exchange on its own account, are subject to licensing to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Transfers of salaries, wages, gra- tuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the For- eign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses is allowed to be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the follow- ing limits: (1) education allowances, US$1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, US$200 a per- son a trip; and (3) medical treatment, US$3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Nonresidents are required to pay an airport departure tax of US$20, and residents, So. Sh 1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The export of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must sur- render the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an ad- vance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of exports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to repatria- tion and declaration. Exporters of services may re- tain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange re- ceipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required to convert at least US$100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank upon arrival. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial bank at the official exchange rate upon arrival. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing un- less they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Investment Law stipulates priorities for foreign investments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from transfer of convertible currency, in the form of ma- chinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in connection with the intended investment). There are no out- right and sectoral restrictions to foreign investment or phase-out provisions, nor does the Igw preclude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for ap- proval in each case within a 60-day period by the Foreign Investment Board, which has final au- thority over all matters concerning foreign invest- ment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 441 provides advice and guidance to the foreign inves- tor on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional framework, and assists at the incorporation and setting-up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in con- vertible currency. There are no restrictions on rein- vestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be trans- ferred in any subsequent years. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) can be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation can be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above- mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares of liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after payment of normal taxes. The Law restricts the possibility of expropriation only to cases where public interest cannot be satis- fied by measures other than expropriation. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the invest- ment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force be- tween the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Con- vention for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. In case none is applicable, the Law provides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agreement or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in European Com- munities (EC) countries; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement During 1989, the exchange rate of the Somali shil- ling was adjusted on numerous occasions, yielding a rate of So. Sh. 271 = US$1 on January 1, 1989 to So. Sh. 924 - US$1 on December 29, 1989. Imports and Import Payments October!. Letters of credit for imports of essential goods (edible oil, flour, rice, and sugar) were ex- empted from the prior approval requirement. Payments for Invisibles August 15. The airport departure tax for residents was raised from So. Sh. 1,000 to So. Sh. 3,200. Exports and Export Proceeds January 10. State trading monopoly over exports of hides and skins and myrrh was abolished. Capital Decembers. A new banking law allowing residents as well as nonresidents to establish commercial banks was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 29,1989, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were US$0.3930 buying and US$0.3920 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Au- thorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments/accruals due to/by nonresidents aris- ing from authorized trade and nontrade transac- tions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments/ accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents subject to certain limitations. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an inter- est rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Special rand forward cover at preferential rates is provided by the Reserve Bank in respect of import financing offered to and accepted by South African importers. Such special forward cover must coincide with the redemption date of relevant fi- nancing and may not be canceled prior to maturity. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transfer- able currencies in respect of long-term offshore fi- nancing for capital goods imports and in respect of affected indebtedness converted into long-term loans. In addition, special rand "offsetting" forward cover at preferential rates may be applied to swap transactions in respect of preshipment financing for South African exporters. Gold mining companies/ houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu ture gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The freely floating "financial" rand system (with- out the participation of Swaziland) operates with respect to the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, capital remit- tances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The ex- change rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1989, the discount was about 28 percent, and the closing midpoint exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 29,1989 was R 3.570 - US$1. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement, as from September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including Namibia (Southwest Africa)), Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transkei, and Venda, and these form, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its powers to the autho- rized dealers. Import and export permits are gener- ally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Minister of Trade, Industry and Tourism. Exchange for licensed im- ports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen- tary evidence, which must include the prior ap- proval of the Reserve Bank.1 Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is 1 Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33Vs percent of the ex-factory cost of capital goods, if suppliers require it. 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 443 legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.2 Set- tlements by/to residents of the Common Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a Nonresident Account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Ac- counts, and Emigrant Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Accounts may be credited with all au- thorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Common Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, that is, by transfer to a local Nonresident Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents. Immigrants (excluding former South African residents) arriving after September 1, 1985 may, without the Reserve Bank's approval, during the first three years of their residence, introduce their capital through the medium of the financial rand. The release locally of up to R 200,000 of these funds per family unit is permitted during the first three years of residence. Dealers on the Johan- nesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members are per- mitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents act- ing on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances 2Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland are freely convert- ible into rand, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Maloti bank notes issued by Lesotho are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency mean any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but exclude the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a person (i.e., a natural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Common Monetary Area. from one Financial Rand Account on their books to another, on their own books, or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or public utility stocks. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by non- residents for the purchase of other assets. The local sale proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants before their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts. Emigrant Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the time of departure and with the proceeds of any other South African asset held at the time of depar- ture and subsequently sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Emi- grant Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or for other specified payments to residents, or be invested in any se- curities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23,1988, and amended on Au- gust 4, 1989 and April 27, 1990. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The per- mits are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of permit include all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, and Swaziland that were grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of sugar from Swazi- land and a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of im- portation) and an import permit where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed, except with prior ap- proval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 13 percent, as are locally produced goods. On August 15, 1988, the 10 percent import surcharge system was replaced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SOUTH AFRICA by a differential system of varying rates ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury imports. mitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as de- clared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, pro- vided that the relevant royalty agreement was ap- proved by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank, and provided that the remit- tance of profits and dividends is based on earnings generated after January 1,1984 and does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable considera- tion is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from se- curities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 10,000 for an adult and R 5,000 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 4,000 for an adult (R 2,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries, that is, Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant al- lowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 750 a day, with a maximum of R 15,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable al- lowance for business trips to the neighboring ter- ritories mentioned above is R 8,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 600 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations outside the,Common Monetary Area may take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, how- ever, may not exceed R 200, but this is not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes that they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of ex- change that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are per- Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered as being in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits to be sold to buyers outside the Common Customs Area (com- bined areas of Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland). Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. To ensure a more effec- tive application of exchange control procedures re- garding the repatriation of export proceeds, export- ers are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is neces- sary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Common Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital5 All inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,6 whereas inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign ex- change accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward 5Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, non-resident-owned mort- gage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or sub- stitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, ex- cept for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 445 transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by non- resident-owned or non-resident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on for- eign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from ex- isting holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transac- tions in securities, subject to certain conditions de- signed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase farms and residential properties with the financial rand. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term in- vestment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments de- signed to foster exports and to maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Af- rica may, through the same channel, be retrans- ferred abroad within the first three years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Ac- counts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible trans- ferable amount must be credited to an Emigrant Blocked Account. Up to R 300,000 of income earned on emigrants' blocked assets may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a Nonresident Account. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Financial Rand Account. The total net income earned from such a Financial Rand Account is eligi- ble for transfer in addition to the R 300,000 men- tioned above. An emigrant family or an individual can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 40,000, provided that it. was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 40,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's possession for a period of not less than one year. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by non-resident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances,7 current profits earned after January 1,1984, and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of non-resi- dent-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary au- thorities, authorized dealers, registered gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The approval authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written decla- ration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written decla- ration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after reference and ap- proval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of production. The arrangement whereby the Reserve Bank paid the gold mines in U.S. dollars for 50 percent of their total sales, with the balance settled in rand, was canceled with effect from De- cember 9,1985. From this date, the mines have been paid in rand only. As a special concession, the indus- try may retain approximately one third of its produc- tion for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. 7Subject, however, to the standstill arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 SOUTH AFRICA The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand without a face value, which are legal tender but do not circulate in South Africa; these are made available in limited numbers to resi- dent collectors. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement February 1. Gold mining companies/houses were permitted to sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. Imports and Import Payments March 20. The rate of general sales tax on imports was raised to 13 percent. Capital August 10. Nonresidents were prohibited from purchasing farms and residential properties with the financial rand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Exchange Control Territory The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the curren- cies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for specified currencies1 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. On December 29, 1989, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 108.6 per US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All fu ture transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indi- rectly from prudential rules on maximum net for- eign exchange exposure. Under existing regula- tions, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage of the consolidated own resources of each banking group that is deter- mined by the Bank of Spain. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 15, 1986. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including those pertaining to trade and invisible transactions, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish residents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and su- pervises commercial banks' activities, and is re- sponsible for all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in convertible pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in foot- note 1, but they are usually made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. Nonresident Accounts As of December 1985, accounts affected by the regulations on nonresident accounts are either con- vertible accounts or ordinary accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts. Insurance companies, tourism agencies, and transport companies may maintain Convertible Peseta Accounts. These ac- counts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency sold by nonresidents in the Spanish for- eign exchange market, with authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transactions, with accrued in- terest on such accounts, and with transfers from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equivalent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transactions, for cash drawings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Under temporary restrictions introduced in April 1987 aimed at countering short-term capital 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 SPAIN inflows, banks are forbidden to negotiate interest rates on balances on Convertible Peseta Accounts exceeding Ptas 10 million.2 Convertible peseta bal- ances are subject to a reserve requirement. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for for- ward cover in the forward exchange market in Spain. Convertible Peseta Accounts may not be in a net debit position, except in cases of payments of bills of lading, technical delays in check clearing, or delays resulting from the realization and liquidation of foreign portfolio investment in Spain. Ordinary Peseta Accounts (Royal Decree 1723/85 and Resolution of December 20, 1985) can be cred- ited freely. Balances in such accounts, which are not convertible, may be utilized to cover tourist ex- penses in Spain, as well as investments that can qualify as foreign investments; transfer rights for such investments, financed by ordinary pesetas, are not restricted, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled (e.g., proof of the legal origin of the funds deposited, and verification in the General Directorate). Earnings on these accounts can be transferred abroad freely. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be made freely into Spain. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., color television sets, tractors, explosives, carpets, sewing machines, plastics, seed oil, and gold) are subject to authorization by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made between Euro- pean Communities (EC) countries, Portugal, Euro- pean Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Medi- terranean, and ACP3 countries, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) member countries, and state-trading countries). Since June 1989, the re- quirement of import domiciliation has been removed. Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, pro- vided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the authenticity of the transac- tion. Nonresident holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights. Purchasers of securities bought with internal pesetas must hold them for three years to qualify to transfer abroad the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct in- vestments and rents on non-resident-owned real estate are freely transferable abroad. A general li- cense permits the reinsurance abroad of risks in- sured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insur- ance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for ex- ports and imports of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made without supporting documents. There are no limits on foreign exchange purchases for tourism (the maximum limit on foreign exchange allowances was removed in March 1987). However, the export of bank notes or coins in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 350,000 in foreign currency and in excess of Ptas 100,000 in domestic currency must be reported and requires the prior approval of the Directorate- General of External Transactions. The proceeds from the liquidation of foreign in- vestments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by-products) require prior authorization from the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the desti- nation or when exported to certain geographical areas (with distinctions being made between EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Exporters may maintain up to 100 percent of ex- port proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with resident banks or banks abroad for a period of three months, after which up to 50 percent of the export proceeds may be maintained in resident banks only. The balance may be used by the account holder subject to exchange control regulations. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market through autho- rized banks within 15 days of receipt. Capital 2Effective April 4, 1990, banks were permitted to pay interest. 3African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC. For most direct foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies, prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 449 verification is required only if participation exceeds 50 percent. Irrespective of the size of companies, such investments need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification if they exceed Ptas 25 million, and can be considered approved in the absence of a response after 30 days. Special authorization is required for foreign investment in strategic sectors (such as defense-related industries, strategic minerals, and telecommunications services) and in television, ra- dio, air transport, and gambling. Foreign investments for the acquisition of branches or real estate are not subject to restriction if financed with convertible currencies; such invest- ments need to be communicated to the Directorate- General of External Transactions for verification only if the investor is a legal entity. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares and bonds. Short-term commercial suppliers' credits may be contracted without restriction. The contract- ing of medium-term suppliers' credits with nonresi- dent EC nationals requires prior administrative ver- ification, and the contracting of other types of suppliers' credit is subject to prior authorization. Individuals and juridical persons residing in Spain may freely negotiate financial loans in foreign currency or convertible pesetas, subject to com- pliance with the following conditions: (1) the amount of the loan does not exceed Ptas 1.5 million; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least three years, starting from the date of the first disburse- ment (foreign currency borrowing with shorter ma- turity is subject to authorization); (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign cur- rencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market or in convertible pesetas and will remain in that currency until maturity; (4) the resident bor- rower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending institution; and (5) since January 31,1989, a 30 percent nonremunerated deposit requirement has been imposed on all new net foreign borrowing by Spanish residents. Loans may be freely amor- tized three years after the date of disbursement. The borrower may, at any time, transfer the domicilia- tion of the loan to another authorized institution, in which case, at the request of the borrower, the cur- rent authorized institution of domiciliation must transmit directly to the new bank of domiciliation the original Bank of Spain document on which all movements of funds effected through that institu- tion are recorded. Purchases of financial or commer- cial claims that are not negotiable on the Spanish Stock Exchange by nonresidents are subject to approval. Direct investments abroad are defined according to Organization for Economic Cooperation and De- velopment (OECD) guidelines, taking into account whether an effective control over the foreign com- pany has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the Spanish investment is at least 20 percent of the foreign company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Direct investments are defined to include the participation in a foreign company, as well as in the increase in its capital, the establish- ment of branches and subsidiaries, and the grant- ing of long-term loans, with a view to maintaining or establishing lasting economic links. Direct investments abroad are permitted freely. Direct investment projects, however, must be com- municated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification and statistical control. If no administrative notification is received within 30 days of the submission of application, it may be considered approved. Direct investments must be carried out within 6 months, unless an extension is authorized. Real estate investments abroad can be made freely. Reinvestments of the principal of a previous direct investment in a new direct or liber- alized portfolio investment must be undertaken within 3 months, and require prior verification in the former case (except where the purpose of the new direct investment is identical to that of the previous one). Portfolio investments are defined as the purchase of securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or issued by residents in a foreign market. Securities are defined to include equity, fixed- or floating-rate instruments, or par- ticipations in investment trusts. Residents are free to purchase, without prior authorization or verifica- tion, on foreign stock exchanges, securities denomi- nated in foreign currencies that are negotiable in Spanish foreign exchanges. There are no limits on the purchase of securities denominated in pesetas and issued on the domestic market by the interna- tional organizations of which Spain is a member. Securities bought on foreign stock exchanges must be deposited with designated Spanish financial in- termediaries for tax-reporting and withholding pur- poses. All returns on foreign investments must be converted into pesetas through those intermedi- aries. Residents are not allowed to purchase se- curities denominated in pesetas and issued abroad or securities denominated in foreign currencies and issued in Spanish capital markets. Residents are allowed to maintain accounts denominated in ECUs ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SPAIN at the authorized banks. The issuance of securities denominated in foreign currencies in the domestic market is subject to approval. Approval is granted liberally if securities are listed on the Spanish Stock Exchange. With the authorization of the Treasury, interna- tional organizations of which Spain is a member may issue securities denominated in pesetas in the domestic capital market, with the proceeds being considered fully convertible. Financial loans by resi- dents to nonresidents require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Autho- rized banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents up to 25 percent of balances on their Convertible Peseta Accounts, and to open accounts in foreign currencies for nonresidents without restriction. Proceeds from the sale of real estate are transfer- able abroad, provided that they were not financed from Ordinary Peseta Accounts. Proceeds, includ- ing capital gains, from the liquidation of shares and bonds may be transferred abroad; however, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation pro- ceeds abroad. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports in the form of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured forms (e.g., coins, medals, etc.) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, de- pending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value- added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 19. Spain joined the exchange rate mecha- nism of the European Monetary System (EMS). The central rate of the Spanish peseta in terms of the ECU was set at Ptas 133.804 = ECU 1. July 27. All restrictions on forward cover to be provided to nonresidents were eliminated (Central Bank Directive No. 14/1889). September 21. The Spanish peseta was included in the ECU basket. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) May 29. The requirement of bank domiciliation was abolished. June 1. The requirement of import domiciliation was removed. Capital January 31. A 30 percent nonremunerated deposit requirement was imposed on all new net foreign borrowings by Spanish residents. February 4. Spanish residents were permitted to purchase without restriction securities denomi- nated in pesetas that are issued by international organizations and foreign governments. July 27. All restrictions on the provision of commercial credits by Spanish exporters were eliminated. September 26. Spanish residents were permitted to maintain accounts in ECUs at authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is determined daily by the Central Bank. The Central Bank determines daily the spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions with the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the buying and selling rates so established. On De- cember 29,1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 39.98 and SL Rs 40.01, re- spectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks provide a forward ex- change market for commercial transactions in which rates are freely determined. Commercial banks are required to buy forward foreign exchange proceeds from all exporters whenever exports exceed SL Rs 500,000, whether or not exporters avail them- selves of the Central Bank's export refinance facili- ties. They may cover such purchases by selling for- ward to their clients (i.e., importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. The average contract for the sale of foreign exchange to im- porters must not exceed a period of 180 days. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka provides forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars for their sales in respect of items approved by the Central Bank and purchase of foreign exchange for a period up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment in areas other than those coming within the pur- view of the Greater Colombo Economic Commis- sion (GCEC), which administers the Investment Promotion Zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Ne- pal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.1 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in a designated foreign currency (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals resident outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 SRI LANKA Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for re- mittances abroad without exchange control ap- proval are not permitted. Accounts in category (4) are designated in the first instance as nonresi- dent blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Ex- change Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Depart- ment of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require the prior approval of the Department. Under cate- gory (5) foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local com- mercial bank without the prior approval of the De- partment of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, re- patriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disburse- ments and credit them on account of pensions, in- come tax refunds, and profits and dividends with- out prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a maximum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts with- out the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a propor- tion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain spec- ified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been em- ployed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who are resident outside Sri Lanka are al- lowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency ac- counts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.2 Such accounts can also be opened by Sri Lankans within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with foreign exchange brought in by them or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these six convertible currencies may be credited to the ac- 2In deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. counts. These accounts may be freely debited with- out exchange control approval for payments abroad or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish a Foreign Currency Banking Unit. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Investment Promo- tion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresi- dent and to any resident enterprise having GCEC status. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept time and demand de- posits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments3 Except for certain specified imports, no prior li- censing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for se- curity reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cin- ematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatus; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete ce- ment blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash including kelp; fertilizer; drugs and pharmaceuti- cals; aircraft, including aircraft spare parts; motor cars; and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items (rice, flour, and wheat grains). Imports of specified items4 are restricted to gov- ernment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures ap- ply to certain imports of capital goods: certain ma- chinery imports relating to foreign investment re- quire the approval of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, and certain machinery im- ports relating to local investment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Com- mittee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. 3As part of the set of measures introduced under the 1988 budget, the maximum import duty rate was lowered from 100 percent to 60 percent, except for luxury items, and the minimum rate was raised from zero to 5 percent plus a 5 percent surcharge, except for fertilizers, dried fish, books, and aids for the handicapped. 4These include dates, chilies, onions, potatoes, certain petro- leum products, film, consumer textiles, caustic soda, tea chests, ju te hessian, mamoties, and matches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 453 Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Ac- counts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected only against sight letters of credit. A 100 percent advanced deposit is required to be lodged against letters of credit at a commercial bank for the importation of specified luxury com- modities. A stamp duty of 3 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (excluding inputs used in export industries) not fully covered by ad- vanced deposits. An authorized dealer may ap- prove an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These re- quirements do not apply where the value of a con- signment does not exceed US$500 and is for the direct use of the importer or imports of raw mate- rials and spare parts for industries. Such imports should not be in commercial quantities. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange al- lowance of US$400 an adult and US$200 a child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangla- desh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan). In addition, basic allowances of US$1,500 an adult and US$750 a child under 12 years of age are granted every three years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as this function has been delegated to the banks. Allowances for official travel require a certifi- cate from the head of the relevant institution. Com- mercial banks may also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular trip abroad, and with confirmation that the cost of the exchange will be borne by the respec- tive business establishment. In such cases, foreign exchange is granted at the rate of US$100 a day for the Indian group of countries, and US$150 a day for travel to other destinations. These rates apply to directors, partners, and sole proprietors of com- panies. Other executives of public companies may obtain up to US$60 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$100 a day for travel to other countries. Allowances for travel for the purpose of employment are limited to £ stg. 100. Applications for allowances in the form of foreign credit cards are subject to review by the Central Bank. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treatment abroad if any specialist, whether in gov- ernment service or in private practice, certifies that equally effective treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. In addition, a monthly living allowance may be granted up to the equivalent of £ stg. 130 for an adult and £ stg. 65 for a child under 12 years for the Indian group of countries; the corresponding amounts for other countries are £ stg. 500 and £ stg. 250, respectively. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released with the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank in amounts up to Indian Rs 750 for the Indian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscriptions and payments to international tourist organizations. Payments for other types of travel allowance require the prior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange is allowed for education abroad at a recognized university or tech- nical institute to cover passage fare, living ex- penses, tuition fees, textbooks, etc. For living expenses, annual foreign exchange limits are estab- lished for (1) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (2) postgraduate educa- tion, according to four groups of countries. For the group of countries in the Indian subcontinent, for- eign exchange is made available up to Indian Rs 8,640 and Indian Rs 11,520, respectively, for under- graduate and postgraduate studies; for Europe (in- cluding the United Kingdom and the U.S.S.R.), up to £ stg. 3,120 and £ stg. 3,840, respectively; for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to US$7,200 and US$8,640, re- spectively; and for all other countries, up to US$4,320 and US$5,760, respectively. A clothing allowance of £ stg. 150 (or its equivalent in other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amounts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two thirds of their gross monthly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enter- prises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third when the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SRI LANKA technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earn- ings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f .o.b., c. & f ., or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are permit- ted; these must be covered by the Insurance Corpo- ration of Sri Lanka or by the National Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of Novem- ber 15,1977 may use these funds for travel expendi- tures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in re- spect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspon- dence courses. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of part- nerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion, do not include undistributed profits from pre- vious years, and do not include transfers from re- serves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the bene- ficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule indicat- ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, submission of the following documents is required: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirm- ing that the remittance represents the final install- ment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and a computation of the remitta- ble profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents only dividends for the period to which it re- lates; (2) a certification that the remittance con- stitutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the benefici- aries and the net amounts due to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors confirming payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirm- ing that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim dividends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies5 without prior ex- change control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these ccounts are limited to inward remit- tances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees autho- rized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change declared to customs at the time of entry. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresident travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency, provided that the Customs Decla- ration Card indicates that at least the equivalent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not ex- ceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. 5Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 455 Exports and Export Proceeds6 A number of specified items require prior licens- ing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation exercises control over ex- ports of gems; exports of gems by the private sector on a consignment basis require prior approval of exchange control. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, dia- monds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be collected within a period ranging from 21 days to 6 months, depending on the form of payment. Also, all export proceeds exceeding SL Rs 500,000 in value must be sold forward to a local bank. Special ar- rangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his foreign exchange holdings, including currency notes and coin, provided that he is carrying currency notes in excess of US$100 or other financial instruments in excess of US$1,000. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The im- port of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permit- ted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in do- mestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coins may be brought in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects that are specifically approved by the Gov- ernment or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Ex- change. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than invest- ments made from blocked accounts may be repatri- ated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved 6As part of the set of measures introduced under the 1988 budget, export duties on nontraditional exports of agricultural and marine products were eliminated, and export duties on tea were reduced by an average 33.5 percent. In addition, export- licensing restrictions were lifted for a number of products. by the Government may not be transferred abroad but may be reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the GCEC are also granted special facilities for remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the princi- pal, interest, or dividends are payable (either con- tractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such se- curities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emi- grants upon presentation of appropriate documen- tation. At the time of departure, emigrants can ob- tain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent up to £ stg. 500 an adult and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be ex- ported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in full, or up to £ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as deter- mined by the Government from time to time. Per- sons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provi- sions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank; the latter is the sole importer of gold into Sri Lanka. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 SRI LANKA Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments April 15. State monopoly on the importation of rice was abolished. May 29. All imports of motor vehicles and motor- cycles (whether on a commercial basis and whether exchange is involved or not) were required to be made against letters of credit. June 15. Commercial banks were required to im- pose a 100 percent advance deposit against letters of credit for the importation of specified luxury commodities. July 24. Imports of industrial raw materials and spare parts for machinery (not in commercial quan- tities) where the value of the full consignment would not exceed US$500 (c .i .f. Colombo) or its equivalent in any foreign currency were exempted from the requirement to establish letters of credit. August 24. All letters of credit established for the import of motorcycles were to be settled only against pro forma invoices indicating the make, the model, the year of first registration, and the cylinder capacity. The final commercial invoices must con- tain the same information. November 30. Subject to prior approval, the impor- tation of sugar was allowed against allocations given to the Sugar Importers Association of Sri Lanka against letters of credit drawn at sight basis. Payments for Invisibles January 27. Applications for foreign exchange al- lowances by business travelers in the form of foreign credit cards were subject to review by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. April 5. The foreign exchange allowance for travel for employment purposes was reduced to £ stg. 100. May 18. Authorized dealers were allowed to remit abroad, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, remittances that were made to firms and indi- viduals resident in Sri Lanka upon request by the remitter, provided that (1) the remittance was re- turned within a period of six months from the date of receipt of such remittance; (2) the funds realized and credited to an account had not been utilized for any purpose; (3) the inward remittance so returned had not been effected in respect of any payments that were legitimately due to any resident in Sri Lanka for services rendered or goods supplied to a nonresident or otherwise; and (4) that no foreign exchange facilities had earlier been granted on the basis of the remittance. Exports and Export Proceeds March 28. Authorized dealers were permitted to approve exports of cut and polished diamonds for which invoice had been certified by the State Gem Corporation and Sri Lanka Customs in respect of the value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official mar- ket, in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of LSd 4.50 = US$1; and (2) a ("free") commercial bank market, in which the exchange rate is deter- mined by a bankers' committee composed of repre- sentatives of seven commercial banks. On Decem- ber 31, 1989, the buying and selling rates in the commercial bank market were LSd 12.10 = US$1 and LSd 12.30 = US$1, respectively. The buying and selling rates in the commercial bank market for telegraphic transfers were LSd 12.10 = US$1 and LSd 12.20 = US$1, respectively. All export proceeds are converted at the commercial bank market rate, except those arising from 70 percent of cotton ex- ports and 50 percent of gum arabic exports, which resulted in an effective exchange rate (in terms of weighted average of the exchange rates in the two markets on December 31, 1989) of approximately LSd 6.81 = US$1 for cotton and LSd 8.35 - US$1 for gum arabic. On the receipts side, in addition to 70 percent of cotton export proceeds and 50 percent of gum arabic export proceeds, the other transac- tions effected at the official market include govern- ment loans and most grants and selected invisible receipts. On the payments side, the official market handles imports of petroleum products, wheat and wheat flour, and a wide range of other consumer and intermediate imports, together with govern- ment invisible payments including debt service. All other receipts are effected at the commercial bank market rate, which is quoted uniformly by all commercial banks. The commercial banks also pur- chase the remittances of Sudanese nationals work- ing abroad. The commercial bank rate is deter- mined by a committee of commercial bankers representing seven banks, four public and three private. Chairmanship of the committee rotates among the public banks. In principle, the commit- tee meets daily to fix the rate. However, after de- preciating the rate to LSd 13.00 per U.S. dollar on February 6, 1989, the committee appreciated the rate to LSd 12.00 per U.S. dollar on February 13, 1989, and there have been only minimal changes since then. Foreign exchange purchase by the com- mercial banks is for their own account. The com- mercial bank resources finance imports from a list of commodities determined by the Ministry of Com- merce, Cooperation, and Supply, as well as certain service payments. Uses of commercial bank foreign exchange resources are supervised by the Bank of Sudan, which also determines the working balance needs of the banks and purchases any surplus. Besides the exchange rate in the official market, the commercial bank market, and the effective ex- change rate that applies to export proceeds, an ex- change rate of LSd 8.00 per clearing dollar is applied to transactions under the bilateral payments ar- rangement with Egypt, except for bilateral trade in camels, for which an effective rate of LSd 7.50 per clearing dollar is applied, and for remittances for tuition for students studying in Egypt and invisible receipts, which are transacted at LSd 4.10 per clear- ing dollar. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. Commercial banks may not effect any payments from their foreign exchange accounts without ver- ification by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. The issu- ance of registration forms and the licensing of im- ports and certain exports (except of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Official import payments and other foreign pay- ments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in co- ordination with the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement—and all monetary areas (the "convert- ible area") may be made in foreign currency from any Free Foreign Currency Account or Special For- eign Currency Account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SUDAN Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are allowed to keep foreign exchange in "free" or "special" foreign exchange accounts, de- pending on the source of funds. Balances in the free accounts may be replenished only from: (1) direct transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange regis- tered on customs declarations; and (3) salary pay- ments in foreign currency by diplomatic missions, and regional and international organizations. All foreign exchange must be surrendered with docu- mentary evidence of transfer. Balances in free ac- counts may be used only for (1) transfers abroad; (2) withdrawal (in the form of traveler's checks or cash, the latter up to a limit of US$200) for travel abroad by the account holder and his family after verification of fulfillment of travel requirements; (3) payments made in bank checks to the Duty-Free Shop Corporation; (4) payments of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency; and (5) purchases of Sudanese pounds at the com- mercial bank rate. Balances in the special accounts may be augmented only from transfers from abroad by international organizations and members of the diplomatic corps, specified Arab organizations, and foreign companies operating in oil drilling and min- ing, construction, engineering, and similar ac- tivities; such balances can also be used for purposes similar to those for free accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protec- tive reasons, and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports are financed from different sources according to categories. Imports by certain public sector entities and other imports considered essential are financed from the foreign exchange resources of the official market. Imports of certain items, consisting mainly of raw materials and in- puts and essential consumer goods, are financed from commercial bank market resources with the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Import licenses specify the method of financing. Import licenses must be obtained from the Minis- try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply for all goods imported into Sudan, and are granted upon favorable decision from an interministerial imports committee (Imports Guidance Committee). Prior to licensing, public sector imports must secure ap- proval from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, and imports under a foreign aid program must be approved by the Commodity Aid Commit- tee. All import licenses must be validated at the Administration for Foreign Exchange (AFE) of the Bank of Sudan. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Imports financed from the commercial bank market are subject to an advance deposit of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Goods that would otherwise be subject to the ad- vance deposit requirement are exempt when fi- nanced with suppliers' credits of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transac- tion is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin deposit ranging from 10 percent to 100 percent of transaction value, depending on the import category. A stamp duty of LSd 25 is levied on the application form for each transfer in respect of private sector imports. Imports of nonessential products (all imports except petroleum and petro- leum products, wheat and wheat flour, phar- maceuticals, fertilizers, insecticides, and selected industrial inputs) are subject to a defense tax of 10 percent. Payments for Invisibles For payments for invisibles made through the commercial banks, the appropriate forms must be verified by the Bank of Sudan. Insurance payments require a certificate from the insurance controller; transfers for medical treatment require a certified cost estimate from the Medical Commission; trans- fers of royalties payable to foreign bodies require a royalty exchange permit from the government body concerned (generally, the Ministry of Industry). For travelers not in possession of a foreign exchange account, a limit of US$50 a person a year applies to purchases of foreign exchange from commercial banks with proof of a round-trip airline ticket pur- chase. In addition, allocations to travelers to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of LSd 810 a person a year in clearing dollars. Departing travelers must provide evidence that all foreign exchange in their possession was drawn from their own foreign exchange account in a com- mercial bank, or was reported on a declaration form before they entered into Sudan, or has been ap- proved by the Bank of Sudan. The exportation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for all exports except for cotton and gum arabic. All exporters must submit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 459 export contracts to the Bank of Sudan for approval. After obtaining the approval of the Bank of Sudan, the contract is submitted to the Ministry of Com- merce, Cooperation, and Supply to obtain an export license. The license must be submitted with the "EX" form to the Bank of Sudan for approval. All threee documents are submitted to the Bank of Sudan through an authorized commercial bank handling the transaction. Export proceeds must be repatriated to the bank- ing system within four months of the date of ship- ment. Seventy percent of convertible currency pro- ceeds from cotton exports and 50 percent of those from gum arabic exports are credited to the Bank of Sudan. All others accrue to the commercial banks. When the terms of payment are cash against docu- ments or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping docu- ments; otherwise, a surrender date is usually spec- ified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. There is an export tax on gum arabic, cotton, hides and skins, and ivory. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad (SNWAs) are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. The repatriation of funds from SNWAs is transacted through the commercial banks at the commercial bank market exchange rate. Remittances by SNWAs under the incentive program, however, are con- verted at the commercial bank market rate. Under the incentive program in operation since Decem- ber 1989, a bonus is offered in the form of a pound- denominated coupon equal to 20 percent of the amount of transfer at the official rate. Coupons may be used by SNWAs to pay customs duties, make purchases in duty-free shops, or may be exchanged, upon their final return to Sudan, for an import license for an automobile if its value is US$8,000 in the case of a saloon model and US$4,000 in the case of a pickup' truck and if it is sold at the commercial bank rate. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other currencies, but may not import more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency. The declaration of foreign exchange is a legal requirement for all arrivals into Sudan. The validation period of the currency declaration form (after which compulsory surrender must be made) is two months. An official declaration is required for the foreign exchange to be credited to a foreign currency account, to be sold to banks, or to be re- exported. Capital Public sector capital inflows (including debt- service payments), except for certain specified oper- ations, are effected through the official exchange market. All incoming private sector foreign capital (loans or equity), other than bank capital, is con- verted at the commercial bank rate. Repatriation of share capital and loan principal to nonresidents is subject to the submission of a certifi- cate from the Bank of Sudan stating the value of the foreign share in the capital and the loans received in Sudan; equity shares require a certification of liqui- dation and of tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to cer- tain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Co- operation, and Supply; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement May 13. A levy of LSd 3.00 per clearing dollar was imposed on the clearing exchange rate under the bilateral payments agreement with Egypt (of LSd 4.10 per clearing dollar) for medical treatment and tourism, bringing the effective medical and tourism rates to LSd 7.10 per clearing dollar. August 19. The levy for tourism and medical treat- ment under the arrangement with Egypt was raised to LSd 3.9 per clearing dollar, and its coverage was extended to all imports from Egypt, bringing the effective rate for all purchases of foreign exchange under this arrangement (other than for students) to LSd 8.00 per clearing dollar. A levy of LSd 0.40 per clearing dollar was imposed on all other invisible payments. Subsequently, the rate of LSd 4.10 per clearing dollar was applied only to Sudanese stu- dents studying in Egypt and to invisible receipts. For bilateral trade in camels, the levy of LSd 3.40 per clearing dollar, which took effect on April 24, 1988, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 SUDAN continued to apply, making the effective rate LSd 7.50 per clearing dollar. Imports and Import Payments July 2. All exceptions to the ban on imports under the "own resources" scheme and barter deals were abolished, except for a few remaining legitimate barter trades where one side of the operation was already completed. Moreover, these trades would be subject to review by a special committee of the Ministry of Trade. Payments for Invisibles July 2. A limit of US$50 a person a year was estab- lished for purchases of foreign exchange from com- mercial banks for travel purposes, with proof of an airline ticket purchase. September 27. A limit of LSd 810 in clearing dollars a person was established for travel to Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds May 27. All export proceeds were required to be converted at the ("free") commercial bank market exchange rate, except for cotton, gum arabic, and sheep, for which the distribution between the offi- cial and the commercial bank market in the propor- tion of 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, would continue to apply. September 18. Export proceeds from gum arabic would be distributed in proportions of 50 percent to both the official and commercial bank exchange market rates. October 19. Export proceeds from sheep would be effected at the commercial bank market exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles July 2. Possession of foreign currency was pro- hibited (previously the equivalent of US$1,000 a person was permitted), and a deadline of July 31, 1989 was set for surrendering foreign bank notes. The deadline was first extended to August 31,1989, before becoming final on September 30, 1989. Dur- ing the grace period, surrendered bank notes (i.e., without documentary evidence) could be used only to open exceptional foreign exchange accounts from which US$5,000 a year a family could be used for invisible payments (e.g., tourism, medical treat- ment, education). However, payments for imports from such accounts would be prohibited. Transfers of foreign exchange between bank accounts were prohibited. Since September 30, 1989, foreign ex- change has been required to be surrendered with documentary evidence of transfer. The validation of the currency declaration form (until compulsory surrender must be made) was extended to two months from three weeks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 = US$1. On De- cember 29,1989, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amsterdam. There is no exchange market in Suriname. There is a commission of 1 percent on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 1.5 per- cent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. A "conversion rate" of Sf 5 = US$1 is used for the valuation of "own-funds" imports, and the Government sells most goods obtained under bridging assistance from the Netherlands at a spe- cial conversion rate of Sf 2.50 per f . l. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. Import licenses, which are required for all merchandise imports, are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.2 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank. In principle, imports of medical supplies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licensing system, but the full basis for allocation is not published. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (sub- ject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Exter- nal payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not per- mitted to sell foreign exchange without the submis- sion of an exchange license by the remitter. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Commercial banks may accept free of li- cense those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the tak- ing up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Sur- iname and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Sur- iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Barbados dollars, and Guyana dollars. 2However, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 SURINAME in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may not be credited with Sur- inamese tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports and are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Imports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are sub- ject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11, 1982.5 The Ministry of Finance allocates foreign ex- change according to three priority criteria. The highest priority list contains items including basic foodstuffs, hydrocarbons, and pharmaceuticals. The second priority list consists of inputs for cement production, subsistence payments to Surinamese students living abroad, and transfers to embassies abroad. The lowest priority list includes spare parts. A government agency, the Suriname Central Impor- tation Service, acts in part as distributors of goods mainly to the outlying districts. Import licenses are granted more liberally to individuals and com- panies using their own foreign exchange ("own- funds" licenses). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding), chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie-kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (ex- cluding potatoes, onions, and garlic), edible roots, and tubers; citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted cof- fee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (exclud- ing those for diabetics); peanut butter, syrups, and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for con- struction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie-kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, and garlic, fruits and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and furniture (excluding those for business establish- ments such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c . i .f. value of all im- ports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth), as well as for advertis- ing expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to li- censing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 270 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A traveler may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 320 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applica- tions for larger amounts of exchange for travel pur- poses are approved on a case-by-case basis. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an indi- vidual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or de- preciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. These payments are temporarily suspended. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad, and exporters undertake to sur- render the foreign currency proceeds within 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 463 days to the Central Bank. The Ministry of Economic Affairs ascertains with a relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the ad- vice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboon- wood is prohibited, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f.o.b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of f .o .b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of the f .o .b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must de- clare all domestic and foreign currency in their pos- session on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and de- clared on entry. Nonresident travelers, except resi- dents of Guyana and French Guiana, are required to change convertible currency in an amount equiv- alent to Sf 500 when entering Suriname at Zanderij International Airport or at Nickerie or Albina. Resi- dents of Guyana and French Guiana must exchange convertible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 200 (50 percent of these amounts apply to chil- dren under 12 years). Unspent balances of such guilders can be reconverted into convertible cur- rency, provided that the visit was shorter than ten days in each case and the visitor spent more than Sf 50 a day. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned com- panies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers investments made by nonresidents with for- eign capital a f ter July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 per- cent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Board may, at its discre- tion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a de- ceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, further annual trans- fers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board may allow emi- grants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign ex- change the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be trans- ferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional circumstances. Outward trans- fers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries6 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Trans- fers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is con- sidered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires the prior approval of the Foreign Exchange Commission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under- taken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Cen- tral Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up 6Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United King- dom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SURINAME to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.7 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Lo- cally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for in- dustrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with a face value of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250, respectively—are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to 7This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, and not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry re- quire exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely bring in gold, subject to decla- ration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 15. A "conversion rate" of Sf 5 = US$1 was introduced for the valuation of "own-funds" im- ports. The Government began to sell most goods obtained under bridging assistance from the Netherlands at a special conversion rate of Sf 2.50 = f . l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E1 = R1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the floating rate of the South African com- mercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the closing buying and selling rates were E 2.5354 and E 2.5366, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European Currency Unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as advised by the Clearing House operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11, 1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, these are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johan- nesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies ex- change controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, but Swaziland has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resi- dent of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods orig- inating in any country of the customs union. Im- ports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in confor- mity with specific import regulations. Import li- censes granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the im- port payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be utilized, but the overall control over import li- censes and payments procedures is a responsibility of the Swazi authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to en- sure that export proceeds are repatriated in the pre- scribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 10,000 for each adult, and E 5,000 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 750 a person a day, not exceed- ing E 15,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTA). To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to departure. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 Capital SWAZILAND All inward capital transfers require the prior ap- proval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior ap- proval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the Central Bank of Swaziland to allow some nonresi- dents to invest in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism in respect of specific projects by acquiring shares in connection with the establish- ment of new companies and by purchasing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to invest- ments involving the establishment or expansion of manufacturing enterprises, subject to evidence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds pro- vided through financial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 11. Swaziland formally accepted the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade-weighted index based on a basket of 15 cur- rencies of Sweden's most important trading part- ners. In constructing the index, the Swedish au- thorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus im- ports) during the previous five-year period, and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index, with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take ac- count of changes in average trade shares, the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1984-88): U.S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Italian lira Belgian franc Japanese yen Swiss franc Spanish peseta Austrian schilling Canadian dollar Total 22.5 16.6 11.1 8.7 7.6 6.7 5.2 4.6 3.8 3.7 3.6 2.1 1.5 1.3 1.2 100.0 The index value of 132 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on October 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The ex- change rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark; beginning in June 1985, fluctuations in the spot rate are limited within 1.5 percent on either side of the announced benchmark. An average of the daily index values is 467 published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buy- ing and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1989 were SKr 6.2260 and SKr 6.2280, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are estab- lished on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the inter- play of market forces. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresi- dents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited (debited) to a kronor account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, op- tions) in individual foreign currencies and the total net position in all foreign currencies. The latter limit is equal to 10 percent of the respective bank's capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents, and may incur foreign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply. This enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to residents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely permitted. Swedish banks may, while observ- ing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all liabilities positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. Au- thorized banks and certain other authorized agen- cies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through au- thorized banks. These banks have also been granted general licenses to approve various payments that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 SWEDEN are subject to exchange control. When required, import and export licenses are issued by the Na- tional Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Mar- ket Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External Kronor Accounts may be held with autho- rized banks by nonresidents domiciled abroad, in- cluding persons who have become nonresidents af- ter emigrating. They may be credited with authorized payments to foreign countries by resi- dents, transfers from other External Kronor Ac- counts, sales of any foreign currency, and interest earned on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments to residents, transferred to any other External Kronor Account, and may be used for conversion into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sin- gapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan Province of China, Thai- land, Turkey, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of spec- ified textiles from any source other than the Euro- pean Communities (EC), the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries, Australia, Canada, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Japan, New Zea- land, and the United States, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for surveillance pur- poses. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made freely through an authorized bank. Importers are also per- mitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restrictions, provided that they are made through an authorized bank. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be acquired freely from authorized banks and other authorized agencies. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coins without limitation. While abroad, residents may open accounts abroad, pro- vided that at the end of the stay the balance is transferred to Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other ex- ports, with the exception of scrap metal, are free from license. Exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold to an authorized bank for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each per- son entering Sweden may, for traveling expenses, bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coins, and other means of payment. Capital Practically all capital transactions are free, pro- vided that they are conducted through an autho- rized bank. For tax control and statistical purposes, however, residents are generally not allowed to de- posit capital in foreign bank accounts or invest capi- tal in life insurance abroad if the premium exceeds SKr 3,000 a year. Security transactions must be car- ried out through an authorized bank or broker, and foreign securities must be deposited with such an institution. Investments in South Africa are not allowed. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1989 Capital January 19. The Riksbank abolished all restrictions on the acquisition of foreign equity; the shares ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 469 must, however, be in the safekeeping of an autho- rized bank or broker. A general exemption was an- nounced for the sale to nonresidents of Swedish unlisted shares. The Riksbank decided that, as from March, direct investments, both outward and in- ward, as well as disinvestments could be made through authorized banks without the prior ap- proval of the Riksbank. July 1. The Riksbank announced the abolition of virtually all the remaining currency regulations. Swedish companies and individuals would hence- forth be allowed to invest in foreign bonds and real estate; borrow and lend abroad regardless of pur- pose; purchase foreign currency for the purpose of depositing the funds in interest-bearing foreign currency accounts at domestic banks; carry out leas- ing and other specialized financial activities abroad; carry out forward foreign exchange transactions and foreign exchange options transactions in Sweden; and transfer bank notes and securities to and from Sweden. In addition, nonresidents were allowed to invest in Swedish bonds and money market instru- ments denominated in Swedish kronor and to make deposits in Swedish kronor in interest-bearing ac- counts in Swedish banks. The remaining exchange controls would apply to deposits made by Swedish companies and individuals in foreign banks and to payments of life insurance premiums to insurance .companies outside Sweden. Furthermore, some regulations remained in force for purposes of com- piling data for the balance of payments and for tax control. The regulations included the following: (1) cross-border payments should be made through an authorized Swedish bank; (2) transactions in- volving securities must be carried out through an authorized Swedish bank which is also authorized as stockbroker, or through a stockbroker authorized by the Riksbank; and (3) foreign securities acquired by residents must be deposited with an authorized Swedish bank or a stockbroker authorized by the Riksbank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when war- ranted by prevailing circumstances. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; on Decem- ber 29,1989, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.54 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commer- cial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premia and discount rates apply to forward ex- change contracts, and all forward exchange transac- tions are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export receipts, ex- cluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export, the Prin- cipality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechten- stein are considered by Switzerland as residents, and so are juridical persons, including banks. How- ever, this rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is involved. Liechtenstein is con- sidered a foreign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal De- partment of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of cur- rency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capi- tal export transactions of financial institutions, how- ever, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is subject to state monopoly. The most important com- modities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their com- pounds. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are es- tablished for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods, including weapons and scraps, is subject to control through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without for- mality, except that foreign bond and note issues in Switzerland and direct participations or subpar- ticipations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues, 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 471 when amounting to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission by the Swiss National Bank. In practice, this requirement is administered very lib- erally. A stamp tax is payable on transactions in Swiss-issued (foreign-issued) securities at the rate of 0.10 (0.20) percent with a maturity of up to three months and at the rate of 0.15 (0.30) percent with a maturity of over three months. Foreign institutions are allowed, in principle, to participate in syndi- cated Swiss franc issue transactions if they are domiciled in Switzerland. For bank credits (exceed- ing Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months), the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and expor- tation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. A select number of banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and ex- ports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. A multiple exchange rate system is maintained. The official rate of LS 11.225 = US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to several export transactions, some foreign exchange brought in by travelers, loans, grants, and other budgetary receipts; and, on the payments side, to public sector imports, public sector invisible payments (except travel), and capital transactions. The promotion rate of LS 21.00 = US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to private remittances, most travel and tourism trans- actions, transfers of Syrian government employees working abroad, some export proceeds, and pur- chases of airline tickets by nonresidents; and, on the payments side, to travel allowances, tourism and medical expenses, and transfers abroad by airline companies. In addition, proceeds from exports of fruits and vegetables, previously surrendered at the promotion rate, are subject to the rate in bordering countries, as determined by the Central Bank. On December 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates were LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for all other major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official and promotion rates for the U.S. dollar in relation to the rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Ex- change Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions, by the Ex- change Office. Only authorized commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit only with the prior 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. approval of the Exchange Office. At present, there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, provided that cer- tain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency re- quirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, of which the first and the third agreements are operative. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments ar- rangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the ac- count holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Residents wishing to open foreign cur- rency accounts are required to present evidence in writing that they have sources of income abroad. Nonresidents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restrictions, or used in payment for specified imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 473 their staffs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to Syria at the official rate, and the remaining 50 per- cent may be kept on deposit in foreign exchange or be converted at the promotion rate. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including green coffee, paper, salt, rice, tea, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agri- cultural machinery) are imported only by state- trading agencies or, for their own account, by cer- tain other official agencies. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import cer- tain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. In 1987-89, the list of permitted goods that can be imported by the private sector was enlarged to include certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Private importers pay advance import deposits and customs on the basis of the official exchange rate. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited with certain exceptions. In principle, im- ports must come direct from the country of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zone are al- lowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, which must be obtained by the importer prior to the date of shipment of the goods. Opera- tions of the state-trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budget, these agencies submit documentation on their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy, and import licenses are automatically is- sued. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accor- dance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Payments for imports by the Government and public sector enterprises are effected at the official market rate, except for a few transactions effected at the "rate for promotion of exports" (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). In principle, private sector importers are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. In practice, as foreign exchange is not made available, private sector imports must be financed with im- porters' own resources. There are currently four avenues available to private sector importers: (1) external credit arrangements, including suppliers' credits of 180 days' maturity, and third-party financ- ing; (2) use of foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by nonresidents; (3) use of importers' own foreign exchange deposits maintained abroad; and (4) use of foreign exchange deposited in the Com- mercial Bank of Syria under the export proceed retention regulations. Import deposits are waived for some categories of agricultural and industrial equipment, raw mate- rials, and spare parts for both public and private importers. For other public imports, a 100 percent advance deposit requirement, valued at the official rate, is, in principle, required. However, this re- quirement has, in practice, been suspended as ac- cess to foreign exchange has been made available by the approval of the Higher Committee on Foreign Exchange. In practice, public sector importers must make an advance deposit at the rate of 15 percent when opening letters of credit with the commercial banks and pay the balance when receiving the doc- uments. A non-interest-bearing advance import de- posit of up to 50 percent of the import value is required for private sector imports financed through foreign credit facilities; the exchange rate of LS 11.25 = US$1 is used in the conversion. Other private imports are subject to a 100 percent advance import deposit requirement in foreign exchange. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged on import license issuance. There is an import sur- charge (called a "license fee") of 2 percent on all imports except those by the Government, and im- ports of certain essential items, including raw mate- rials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addi- tion, there is a unified import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a municipal consumption tax, a de- fense tax, a school tax, and a maritime transport and port tax). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the promotion rate (LS 21.0 = US$1), while trade- related transactions of the public sector are made at the official exchange rate. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, with a limit of US$1,000 a trip for all countries except for Jordan and Lebanon. Of this ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the promotion rate for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non- Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for foreign exchange travel allowance, but may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this exception, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on second- ment to a foreign country may take with them for- eign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above- mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on production of proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab countries, and LS 1,100 a person for other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transac- tions in invisibles, as follows: 60 percent of the sal- aries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 per- cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplo- matic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Exchange Office Committee, with the exception of embassies and international organi- zations, which may convert up to 50 percent of transfers at the promotion rate, and the remaining 50 percent at the official exchange rate. Nonresi- dents leaving the country are not allowed to recon- vert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for gov- ernment agencies, state-trading agencies, or spec- ified companies. Exports of a few goods to all coun- tries and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter undertakes to bring the pro- ceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds of exports retained by private exporters may be used to import goods on a list issued by the Ministry of Economy. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may sell the pro- ceeds at the official exchange rate to the Commercial Bank of Syria. Effective April 25,1989, public sector exporters, with the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, have been permitted to sell foreign exchange to the Commercial Bank of Syria at the "rate for promotion of exports" (LS 40 = US$1). Public sector importers, with the approval of the Higher Committee on Foreign Exchange, may purchase foreign exchange from the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate of LS 2 per US$1 above the Bank's buying rate. Exporters of specified products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export proceeds to finance imports on a permitted •list, 'even if the products to be imported are not directly related to their exporting activity; imports may be undertaken on behalf of public sector en- tities and some other private sector activities. At present, most private sector exporters are thus re- quired to surrender to the Commercial Bank of Syria only 25 percent of their proceeds at the official exchange rate of LS 11.20 = US$1; except for four products, the proceeds from which must be surren- dered at the promotion rate, and eight other prod- ucts, the proceeds from which must be surrendered at the rate in the neighboring countries; the remain- ing 75 percent can be deposited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in special earmarked export exchange accounts until imports are made or foreign ex- change is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 per- cent of the proceeds at the rate in the neighboring countries. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies to import raw materials and spare parts for their own produc- tion activity. The retained export proceeds may be deposited in a special export exchange account de- nominated in foreign currency with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria, or may be surrendered at the rate in the neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 475 of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syr- ian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Exports of ginned cotton receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. There is a tax on the value of production of agri- cultural origin for agriculture exports ranging from 9 to 12 percent ad valorem, except for cotton. There is also a surtax (school tax) of 1 percent. However, exports of fruits and vegetables have been exempted from the export tax during 1989-90. The export tax on cotton is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports (f.o.b.) less the cost of transportation within Syria. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and vegetable oil are subject to an export tax of 8 percent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the promotion rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in un- limited foreign exchange in any form, subject to declaration upon entry. Foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. There is no limit on the amount of Syrian bank notes that may be brought into the country by residents and nonresidents. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organizations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills at deluxe and first-class hotels with the counterpart of foreign currencies exchanged by them at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. Upon entering the country, all such visitors, other than nationals of Arab countries, are each required to convert a minimum of US$100 into local currency at the official exchange rate. All Syrian Government employees working abroad and cov- ered by the Security and Pension Act and the Social Security Act are required to repatriate and convert at the promotion rate a minimum of 25 percent of each year's pay and allowances received in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official rate, while transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case- by-case basis. Transfers of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or non- residents. The export of capital requires the ap- proval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrow- ing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10,1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immi- grants and of nationals of Arab states in the eco- nomic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Incentives for foreign investment in joint ventures in tourism include a seven-year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; exemption from in- come tax on 50 percent of profits; exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of raw materials, tools, vehicles, and other equipment; permission to import inputs needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turn- over; and authorization to open foreign currency accounts. New incentives were introduced in order to promote foreign investment in joint ventures in agriculture and agroindustries. These include a seven-year exemptions from all taxes (including in- come tax) beginning from the first financial year in which profits are declared, and exemptions from import and foreign exchange restrictions. Foreign companies may transfer profits abroad, but not cap- ital except in cases where the investments are in accordance with presidential decrees. Syrian non- residents and Arab nationals may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of profits a year. In the case of mixed enterprises, which are exempt from import duties and profit taxes for a period of five to seven years after realizing profits, the foreign participants may transfer abroad both profits and capital. Invest- ment guarantee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzer- land, and the United States. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may be acquired by non- residents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals only after presentation of evidence that the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property has been converted into Syrian pounds at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without re- striction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC subject to export licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresidents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation com- mitment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 29. Imports of paper and iron and steel products by the private sector were permitted. January 31. The customs tariffs on foodstuffs, cer- tain agricultural and industrial products, and spare parts for automobile and machinery were lowered, while those on luxury goods were raised. April 25. Public sector importers, with the approval of the Higher Committee on Foreign Exchange, may buy foreign exchange from the Commercial Bank of Syria at LS 2 per US$1 above the Bank's rate (buying) for promotion of exports. May 13. The customs valuation rate was changed from LS 4.05 - US$1 to LS 11.25 = US$1. July 3. The special exchange rates for purchases of airline tickets by nonresidents and for transfers abroad by airline companies were eliminated. December 12. Commercial relations were restored with Egypt. Export and Export Proceeds April 25. Public sector exporters, with the authori- zation of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, may sell foreign exchange to the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate for promotion of exports (LS 40 = US$1). Twenty-five percent of the pro- ceeds from exports of fruits and vegetables, pre- viously surrendered at the promotion rate, were required to be surrendered at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. April 25. The ban on exports of olives was lifted. December 4 and 13. The list of permitted exports was expanded by about 80 product items. December 13. For exporters of eight commodities (horticultural goods and dried vegetables), the 25 percent of export proceeds required to be surren- dered were moved to the exchange rate in the neigh- boring countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Tan- zania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tan- zania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 30, 1989, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 191.3382 and T Sh 193.2618, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are deter- mined on the basis of the cross rates for these cur- rencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Tanzania applies a spread of 0.5 percent between the buying and selling rates. The Bank of Tanzania does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risks. However, authorized dealers may, at their dis- cretion, enter into forward contracts of purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers on account of export and import transactions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks —the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, virtually all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over ex- change operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania, and export control, by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The Bank of Tan- zania acts as the registrar of exporters. The respon- sibility for issuing specific import and export li- censes rests with the Controllers, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho mal- oti, Malawian kwacha, Mozambique meticais, Mauritian rupees, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zim- babwe dollars. exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar ad- ministers an independent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state- trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a Convertible Nonresident Account or Loro Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals tem- porarily resident in Tanzania; firms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated out- side Tanzania; foreign diplomatic missions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania are designated as nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are di- vided into two broad categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any further scrutiny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tan- zania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after approval is ob- tained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcategories of nonresident accounts—namely, External, Shipping/Airline, Special, Ordinary, Ex- patriate, and Unspecified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals normally resident in Tanzania who have gone abroad for vacation, employment, or other purposes may maintain both Special and Ordinary Accounts in the form of a current, sav- ings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders.. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. All goods in value equivalent to or more than T Sh 10,000 require a license before they can be imported into the country. Under the Own Foreign 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 TANZANIA Exchange Import Scheme, import licenses are is- sued on request for importation of a specified list of commodities. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. Most items, particularly intermediate and capital goods, are subject to a minimum rate of 30 percent. The rate on most consumer goods is 60 percent, and the maximum rate is 100 percent. Statutory exemptions are the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; aircraft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, or religious films; printed matter; cable and telephone material; sewing ma- chines; and timber for use by mining companies. Discretionary full or partial exemptions are allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tan- zania, individual consignments of imports amount- ing to T Sh 250,000 or above are subject to com- pulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quantity, quality, and price; part ship- ment in smaller lots against a pro forma invoice of T Sh 250,000 or more is also subject to preshipment inspection irrespective of the value of the smaller lots. All merchandise imports by the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tan- zania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Since February 1988, the Government has made a portion of foreign exchange available on a nonad- ministrative basis for a selected positive list of pri- ority import categories through an Open General Licensing (OGL) system. Under the OGL system, the minimum value for each import license is set at US$5,000 and the maximum annual value per im- porter is US$1 million. The OGL import license is valid for four months, and advance cash deposits are required in accordance with the normal com- mercial banking procedure. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under con- tract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may re- mit abroad, throughout their period of employ- ment, up to one third of their salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit more than one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 6,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are not granted, and family remittances by resi- dents to relatives abroad are not allowed. A traveler is allowed to take out up to T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of some products are handled by state-trading organizations, and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two months of the date of exportation. However, on ap- plication to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon their collection, with the following exceptions: (1) exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to 35 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and may import goods on the list that are permitted to be financed by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market; and (2) exporters involved in a production activity must use all of their retained foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts essential to their production activities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a re- turning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania perma- nently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to maintain himself and his ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 479 dependents and has no ostensible means of liveli- hood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents re- quire the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Tanzania but, to ensure eventual re- patriation, the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign In- vestment (Protection) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from resi- dents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is remit- table, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies re- quire approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form, other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 29. The exchange rate of the Tanzania shilling was adjusted against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, to T Sh 192.9 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The list of imports eligible under the OGL system was substantially expanded, and its ceiling per importer was raised from US$2,000 to US$5,000. July 1. The OGL annual ceiling per importer was raised to US$1 million, and the list of imports eligi- ble under the OGL was expanded further. The maximum customs tariff rate was reduced from 150 percent to 100 percent, and it would apply to only 5 luxury categories. The number of rate categories was reduced from 20 to 7. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The maximum retention rate for non- traditional exports was set at 35 percent, and the retention privileges for traditional exports were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners as well as other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and com- mercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dol- lars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Sin- gapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 29, 1989, the middle official rate was B 25.69 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange markets operate between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions have to be related to underlying trade and financial transactions. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium in the baht/U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest dif- ferentials between the two currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized banks and authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to ap- proval (given automatically for bona fide commer- cial transactions and other current payments); cer- tain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by ministerial notifica- tion.1 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. such notification has yet been issued. 480 Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open and maintain nonresi- dent baht accounts or foreign currency accounts with commercial banks in Thailand. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Bal- ances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restriction. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of for- eign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transferable Ac- counts, or with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Transfers other than those de- scribed above into such accounts require prior ap- proval. Balances on Transferable Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents or for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad. Funds may be transferred freely to and from Blocked Accounts except for purchases of foreign currency for transfer abroad, which are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some, and the im- port of certain others is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are subject to li- censing. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, skimmed milk, soybean meal, and silk yarn are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a propor- tionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by autho- rized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 481 given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$4,000 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Im- porters must obtain, in addition to the usual docu- ments, a "certificate of payment" from an autho- rized agent before imported goods exceeding B 400,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of De- fense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign ex- change; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, ed- ucational expenses abroad, and import payments, authorized agents are permitted to approve applica- tions for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$500. Authorized money changers are allowed to sell foreign currency up to a limit of US$1,000 a person. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or per- sonal business trips, authorized agents may ap- prove exchange allowances not exceeding the equiv- alent of US$1,500 a person (US$2,000 for business- men and government officials) for a trip of not more than 10 days, or the equivalent of US$150 a day for a trip of not more than 15 days when a visa is not required, and for a trip of not more than 30 days when a visa is required. For business or official travel, US$200 a day is allowed, with additional for- eign exchange not exceeding US$100 a day for enter- tainment expenses. These allowances are granted on the condition that foreign currencies are taken out in the form of traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, credit card allowances, and traveling letters of credit. For foreign currencies taken out in other forms, such as drafts, a maximum of only US$3,000 is allowed automatically; for an amount of more than US$3,000, a formal request must be submitted to the Bank of Thailand. For family remittances, authorized banks may sell up to US$5,000 a year. Amounts exceeding these limits require approval from the Bank of Thailand upon verification. A person may take out local currency not exceed- ing B 10,000, with the exception of a traveler to the Lao People's Democratic Republic, who is allowed the maximum amount of B 100,000, or foreign cur- rency not exceeding US$1,000 (US$2,000 for a fam- ily traveling on a single passport), or the equivalent in the form of notes and coins, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. An amount above this limit, but not more than the allowed limit according to the duration of travel, may be sold in other forms of foreign currencies— e.g., traveler's checks. The resale of foreign cur- rency to a person in transit is allowed, provided that the record of foreign currency sold to a commercial bank or authorized agent is shown, and that the purchase is not greater than the amount previously sold. In addition, foreign tourists may take out for- eign bank notes or coins up to a value of US$10,000. Amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out provided that they have been declared in writing to the customs officer at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are subject to licens- ing. Certain categories of exports are subject to li- censing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.2 All other commodities may be exported freely, ex- cept to South Africa. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in value must be made through irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an au- thorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs when the value of exports exceeds B 100,000. Export proceeds must be collected and sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered within 15 days of the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of payment, but in any case not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tour- ists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments or other articles up to any value. The export of sugar is subject to export levies referred to as export premiums. 2These include gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to certain markets are also subject to licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 THAILAND Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or traveler's checks payable in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within seven days. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 10,000 without a permit, with the exception of a traveler coming from the Lao People's Democratic Republic, who may bring in up to B 100,000. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including pre- miums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capi- tal exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferential treatment under the Investment Pro- motion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29,1977); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital re- patriation. The repatriation of other capital is con- sidered on the merits of each case; approval is nor- mally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad re- quires approval by the Bank of Thailand. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward re- mittances. The Foreign Debt Committee must ap- prove external borrowing by the public sector. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures ex- changes are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following ar- rangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold orna- ments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certifi- cate of exportation for presentation to customs, but they are free of export duty or taxes. Changes During 1989 Administration of Control July 7. Commercial banks were authorized to ap- prove the remittance of dividends of foreign invest- ment funds registered with the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the competent officer. Such dividends can be credited to Nonresident Transferable Baht Accounts. July 26. Payments in domestic currency for im- ports and trade related services, such as freight charges and insurance premiums, into Nonresident Transferable Baht Accounts can be approved by au- thorized banks on behalf of the competent officer. December 8. Authorized banks were authorized to approve Exchange Control Forms 21, 22, and 23 in connection with payments for imported materials for the manufacture of export products and with deferred import payments. They were also autho- rized to approve Exchange Control Form 61 for ex- ports under certain circumstances. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs tariffs on apples, wheat, and protein from soybean were reduced to 20 per- cent from 25 percent. April 26. The regulations governing imports of raw materials and inputs were modified, extending the import licensing period for spinning and weav- ing machines by two years. April 28. Imports of 5,000 tonnes of soybean meal were allowed. The following changes were made on the customs tariffs: (1) the rate on coke and semi- coke, lignite, and peat was reduced to 10 percent from 25 percent; (2) the rate (10 percent) on raw hides and skins was reduced to zero; (3) the rate on processed leather was reduced to the range of 5-10 percent from the range of 20-40 percent; (4) the rates on steel bar and billet were reduced to 10 percent and 5 percent from 25 percent and 10 per- cent, respectively. In addition, the customs tariff on recycled iron would be exempted from May 1, 1989 to April 30, 1990. May 29. The customs tariff on automobile spare parts and accessories was unified to a simple rate of 30 percent from a range of 20-60 percent. July 24. The import of 11,000 tonnes of high-grade ju te that is not produced domestically was allowed. October 17. Imports of coconuts—shelled or peeled, fresh or dried—coconut flesh, soybean oil, palm oil, and palm seeds were subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 483 October 18. The regulation on soybean meal im- ports was relaxed, whereby imports of 106,000 tonnes of soybean during September 1989- March 1990 were allowed; the ratio of imports to local purchases was, however, set at no more than 1:2. December 8. The limit on the value of imports and exports that do not require the filing of Exchange Control Form 21 or 61 was increased to B 100,000 from B 50,000. Payments for Invisibles December 8. The limit on the amount of domestic currency notes an individual may take out of the country without approval (except to the Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic) was increased to B 10,000; the limit applicable to the Lao People's Democratic Republic was set at B 100,000. The amount of foreign exchange an authorized bank is allowed to purchase from an individual without the submission of Exchange Control Form 71 was increased to US$1,000 or its equivalent from US$500. Authorized banks were permitted to sell foreign currencies for a bona fide transaction up to a limit of US$500, or its equivalent, without the submission of supporting evidences and Exchange Control Form 31; the previous limit was US$140 a transaction. Authorized banks were allowed to sell foreign exchange up to a limit of US$5,000 a year for remit- tances of family maintenance expenses and savings by expatriate workers. (The same limit would also apply to a Thai national who is on pilgrimage to Mecca.) The previous limit was US$200 a month for transfers to Europe and the United States and US$150 to other countries. Authorized banks were empowered to approve applications for foreign exchange purchases for the registration fees for training, seminar, or employ- ment training abroad, application fees for employ- ment abroad, and service fees for international telecommunication. Authorized banks were permitted to approve au- tomatically Exchange Control Form 51 for the ex- change of foreign currency held by foreign travelers into other foreign means of payment or into another currency, provided that the amount does not exceed US$3,000 or its equivalent at the prevailing ex- change rates. Exports and Export Proceeds January 12. The Ministry of Commerce an- nounced that the quotas for coffee beans exported to member countries of the International Coffee Agreement in the second, third, and fourth quar- ters of 1989 were set at 6,179 tons, 3,009 tons, and 3,010 tons, respectively. These quotas were to be allocated on the basis of exporters' performance during the past five years and their stockholdings. Exporters were required to export coffee to non- member countries at least 1.4 times the quantity exported to member countries. January 19. The non-EC export target for tapioca products was increased to 2,000,000 tons from 500,000 tons, and 1 unit of bonus quota for tapioca exports to the EC market would be awarded to ex- porters who export 1 unit to non-EC markets. February 14. To monitor exports of textile products to the United States more closely, pending negotia- tion of an import quota, exporters were required to report to the Department of Foreign Trade exports to the United States of textile products, in particu- lar: (1) luggage of silk blends (less than 70 percent silk content) since May 24,1988, and (2) noncotton vegetable fiber since January 1, 1989. March 6. Following the lifting of import restric- tions on "luggage of silk blends and noncotton vege- table fiber" by the United States on February 21, 1989, the Department of Foreign Trade announced that the items could be exported in unlimited vol- ume, but the reporting requirement remained in force. April 7. The non-EC export target for tapioca products was increased to 2,400,000 tons. May 2. Permission was granted to export teak that has been imported and processed during May 3, 1989-September 30, 1991. May 8. The limit on the value of foreign currencies that may be retained by the nonbank public was raised to B 50,000 a day, provided that they are earned from border exports of rice. June 21. After allocating all of Thailand's quota for tapioca products to the EC market for 1989 (2 million tons), the Ministry of Commerce announced that the quota of 500,000 tons would be applied to award exporters who exported to non-EC markets. Under the allocation rule, 1 unit of bonus quota for tapioca exports to the EC market for 1990 would be awarded to exporters to non-EC markets. October 9. The quota allocation rule applicable to tapioca products as of June 21,1989 was changed so that the ratio of EC to non-EC exports was reduced to 0.9:1. November 1. For the non-EC exports of tapioca products after October 6,1989 in excess of the target set on June 21, 1989 of 500,000 tons but not more ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 THAILAND than 650,000 tons, the ratio of EC to non-EC exports was reduced to 0.8:1. For the next 150,000 tons over 650,000 tons, the ratio of EC to non-EC exports was reduced further to 0.7:1. December 8. The limit on the value of imports and exports that do not require the filing of Exchange Control Form 21 or 61 was increased to B 100,000 from B 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles December 8. The limit on the amount of domestic currency notes an individual may bring into the country without approval (except from the Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic) was increased to B 10,000; the limit applicable to the Lao People's Democratic Republic was set at B 100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. On October 2,1989, the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) ceased to levy a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks levy a proportional commission of 2.50 per mill on trans- fers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts must be up to three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's ex- change controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these coun- tries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises aThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are free of any commission. borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. A Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regulations concerning amounts exceeding CFAF 500,000 and on express requests from violators of foreign ex- change regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal and Telecom- munications Office (Office des Postes et Telecom- munications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. Forwarding and receipt of bank notes through the mail by authorized intermedi- aries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. Import and virtually all export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Licenses for the export of cereals and other food crops are issued by the Commission Nationale d'Attribution des Licenses d'Exportation, but with- in the quota and volume limits set by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports, after the approval of the Council of Ministers. Exports of local manufac- tured products and imports of nearly all products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 TOGO of those countries, or in French francs through For- eign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes is- sued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign corre- spondents of authorized banks, which may be cred- ited with BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are pro- hibited. All other imports may be made freely, with the following exceptions: (1) imports of live or pro- cessed broilers and of frozen meat are prohibited; (2) the issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin, footwear other than lux- ury or sports footwear with an f.o.b. value of less than CFAF 3,000, and frozen chickens and chicken offals is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product (in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced in respect of printed piece goods); (3) imports of cement, concrete-reinforcing bars, and wheat flour are sub- ject to the prior issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be imported only by dealers legally established in Togo who possess an authorization from the Minister of Commerce and Transportation; and (5) imports of pharmaceutical products, explosives, and firearms are subject to special arrangements. The import monopoly of the Societe Nationale de Commerce for some consumer goods has been abolished. How- ever, imports of some of these products (sugar, rice, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and cigarettes) are subject to special approval by the Ministry of Com- merce and Transportation. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a special nature. The foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased after establishing domiciliation accounts (dossiers de domiciliation) and submitting supporting documents, but not ear- lier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Pur- chases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization by the Minister, which may be granted only on the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent of each transaction involving capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. All import operations exceeding CFAF 200,000 are conditional on merchandise insur- ance being taken out and domiciled with an ap- proved insurance company in Togo. Inspection of quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- tion when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 re- maining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 487 the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses only in certain cases. All exports to South Africa are pro- hibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates, and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo has a monop- oly over the export of cocoa, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural com- modities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but li- censes are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports determines that there is a food grain surplus. The Technical Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable surplus, and in early November (by November 10) to estab- lish the actual export ceilings. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the Operations Account Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their desti- nation, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized dia- mond purchasing offices, however, may retain for- eign currency proceeds in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 and the domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatriation of such receipts through BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries 3This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign cur- rency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and for- eign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval by the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be sub- stituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance;4 beginning June 24, 1981 at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrowing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy 4Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 TOGO and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward invest- ment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are To- golese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments con- stitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not ex- ceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior decla- ration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by in- dustrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchant houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct invest- ment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Director- ate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and.the investor. Until October 30, 1989, the Investment Law, which was applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, set out the types of enterprises that could be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office was in Togo. Such firms could sign a special funding agreement by which they received certain tax benefits. Firms that undertook to invest at least CFAF 3 billion could receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. On October 31, 1989, a new investment code was adopted to promote local employment and small- and medium-scale Togolese enterprises and to de- velop local resources. To obtain the tax benefits under the new code, firms must provide from eq- uity equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes, and excluding working capital, to fi- nance new projects, and must pay at least 60 per- cent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits mainly include exemptions from minimum forfait tax and corporate income taxes for five years for small- and medium-scale enterprises, seven years for enterprises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement October 2. The BCEAO ceased to levy a commis- sion on transfers to and from countries outside the WAMU. Imports and Import Payments April 4. Inspection of quality, quantity, and price of imports was suspended. May 26. Imports of rice, sugar, alcoholic bev- erages, tobacco, and cigarettes, formerly under the SONACOM (Societe Nationale de Commerce) monop- oly, were made subject to special approval to be granted by the Ministry of Commerce and Trans- portation only to firms established in Togo that maintain an appropriate accounting system and have a minimum capital of CFAF 25 million. May 29. Imports of cement, concrete-reinforcing bars, and wheat flour were made subject to prior issuance of import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 489 September 13. Imports of all meat products were prohibited. October 18. Prohibition of imports of meat prod- ucts, with exception of frozen meats, was abolished. December 20. Imports of "King's" and "Turkey" brand oil were banned. Capital October 31. A new investment code, emphasizing generation of employment of resident workers and streamlining tax exemption privileges, was adopted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga, which is pegged to the Australian dollar at par. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (central bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar, the intervention currency, of T$1.0010 = $A1 and T$0.9990 = $A1, respectively. The Bank of Tonga (commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 other currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is ap- proximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. On December 29, 1989, the exchange rate (midpoint) of the pa'anga for the U.S. dollar was T$1.2585 per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies to be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for motor vehi- cles, and import quotas are applied only to fresh eggs. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural, health, safety, or environmental rea- sons. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are primarily for revenue purposes, and protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as paint and wire fencing. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports, but coconut derivatives and bananas may be exported commercially only through the Tonga Commodities Board. The Tonga Commodities Board must authorize the export of whole coconuts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The Bank of Tonga is authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$l,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve re- quests for amounts exceeding T$l,000 a year upon submission of satisfactory documentary evidence that the underlying transaction is a bona fide cur- rent international transaction. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freight earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns forwarded to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, which so far remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for a license, with approval depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic production, rather than competing with it, are gen- erally preferred. Under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, foreign investors involved in man- ufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inputs, a five-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. Acquisition of financial assets abroad by Tongan residents is, in principle, not permitted. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement July 7. The Bank of Tonga discontinued the pur- chase of export receipts at the midpoint exchange rate. Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control July 3. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga com- menced operations. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$4.25 = US$1. On December 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were TT$4.24468 andTT$4.28719, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. There is a limited forward exchange market, in which the Central Bank quotes forward selling rates for the major international currencies.2 The rates quoted to the commercial banks are for local trading, on a fixed future date, for one-, two-, or three-month periods. Forward transactions are permitted for approved trade transactions only. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting under delegated authority of the Ministry of Finance. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency3, and for control over both cur- rent and capital transactions. Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Approval authority with re- spect to payments for visible imports has been dele- gated to the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism). This Minis- try also issues import and export licenses, where necessary. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local non- resident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- 1 Barbados dollars, Belize dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 3Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. In certain cases, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of foreign currency receipts in a Foreign Currency Account (see section on Foreign Currency Accounts below). cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago does not re- patriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.4 Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Ex- ternal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These ac- counts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts can be converted into U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trin- idad and Tobago. Blocked Accounts are normally credited with the balance of capital assets of persons who have emi- grated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of bal- ances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authoriza- tion. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities with the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities. Income arising from Blocked Ac- counts (such as interest and rents) is freely remitta- ble, provided the tax liabilities are settled. Generally, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligi- ble for remittance to nonresidents on an annual basis. 4Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by (1) designated exporters who have earned foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements (20 percent of the export pro- ceeds are sold to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks); (2) petroleum service companies who receive payments from the foreign currency accounts of the oil companies (these accounts may be used to purchase goods and services for the oil companies); and (3) selected tourism-related enter- prises. Holders of these accounts are required to submit periodically to the authorities statements of credits and debits to the account. Imports and Import Payments Annual foreign exchange sales for imports are guided by a foreign exchange budget for imports. Trade allocation certificates, expressed in domestic currency, are issued to each importer registered with the Central Bank. The certificates state the importer's annual allocation for each product group falling under the first two digits of the Customs Cooperative Council Nomenclature (CCCN) Tariff Code, and importers may select products under each tariff group, subject to licensing requirement where necessary. These certificates are used to pur- chase foreign exchange for imports during the year. In 1989, in order to accommodate the Central Bank's foreign exchange position, certificates were issued to all importers who were entitled to an annual allocation in excess of TT$1 million. For priority im- ports, all four quarterly certificates were made avail- able to importers at the beginning of the year. For other imports, the first two quarterly certificates were made available to importers at the beginning of the year, and only the third quarter allocation was made available in the second half of the year in view of limited foreign exchange availability. For imports under capital projects, foreign exchange is allocated upon approval of the relevant project by the Central Bank. Exempted from the trade allocation certificate system are imports from the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries5 (provided that im- ports meet the rules of origin criteria of the CARICOM Treaty and payments are effected in the currency of the CARICOM country), imports funded from For- 5The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. eign Currency Accounts, and, effective Sep- tember 30, 1989, imports of 12 product groups, in- cluding most agricultural inputs, some raw mate- rials for manufacturing industries, and capital goods and spare parts (the latter unless used in a project with a value in excess of TT$500,000, in which case prior exchange control approval would still be required). While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a "negative list." Main product items that are included in the nega- tive list are certain food items, animal feed, cement, textiles, footwear, light fittings, electric appliances, paper products, plastic goods, tires, steel and other metal products, and completely assembled motor vehicles; imports of these products require a spe- cific license. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for se- curity and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are subject to state trading. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regula- tion, as are imports of mining materials. Licenses for imports of certain inputs for man- ufacturing industries are issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. For these inputs, a specific license is not required for shipments of items on the negative list, or for items that originate from or are consigned by sources from which all goods are subject to an import license. When specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enter- prise, and Tourism) before orders are placed. Pay- ments for all imports require exchange control approval. Imports of certain food products are subject to the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Ro- mania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the negative list status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 493 between 30 percent to 60 percent, and on motor vehicles are 45 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, certain raw materials, and goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempted from customs du- ties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted partial or total ex- emptions from the customs duty by the Minister of Industry and Enterprise on recommendation of the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). Spec- ified imports from non-CARicoM countries are sub- ject to a 15 percent surcharge. Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foodstuffs, medicines, books, news- print, and raw materials are exempted. Purchase taxes at rates ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent are levied on imported consumer goods. Certain domestically produced goods are also subject to the tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the spe- cific approval of the exchange control authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be sup- ported by appropriate documentary evidence. Pay- ments for current international transactions to South Africa are prohibited. Under authority dele- gated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of TT$2,500 a person a year (for a one- day trip, TT$730); for business travel, TT$350 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip (for a one-day trip, TT$730); and for health care, TT$12,000 a year. Annual allowances for education abroad are the equivalent of TT$8,000 for secondary schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for corre- spondence courses. Allowances of TT$700 once every two years are granted for warm clothing. If additional amounts are needed, the specific ap- proval of the authorities is required. Remittances of gifts and donations require approval from the Cen- tral Bank. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may obtain part of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes up to a maximum of TT$1,200. Nonresidents leaving Trin- idad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$1,200, upon showing evidence of having previously sold foreign currency to autho- rized dealers. Sums in excess of TT$1,200 require the approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and To- bago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted by open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the minis- try responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, En- terprise, and Tourism). Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In prac- tice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operat- ing in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. The company must submit periodic documents of its exchange transactions to the authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in for- eign currencies must be surrendered. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trinidad and To- bago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be brought in by both resident and nonresident travelers. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago re- quire approval and generally are restricted. How- ever, repayment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration al- lowances are approved up to specified limits; fur- thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are facilitated. Legacies may be repatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international in- stitutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. Securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars and held by nonresidents must be lodged with an authorized depository, 23 of which have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other in- vestments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation, provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for invest- ment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a period of time, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities, provided that the full proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official mar- ket rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested out- side Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Non- residents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Act in order to hold an interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must ob- tain approval for their project from the exchange control authorities in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import- substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the framework of a CAR- ICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to enter- prises declared to be approved enterprises. Concessions include temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges. These are outlined in the Invesment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms and to non-resident-controlled local com- panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Each com- mercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numisma- tic purposes. Imports and exports of gold are controlled by the ministry responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism). Imports of gold jewelry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are subject to specific import licenses, which are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the mon- etary authorities. Changes During 1989 Foreign Currency Accounts January.1. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts was granted to (1) designated exporters who earn foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements; (2) pet- roleum service companies; and (3) selected tourism- related enterprises. Imports and Import Payments February 28. Seventeen product groups (including cosmetics, pesticides, fertilizers, various chemicals, and aluminum sheets) were removed from the negative list. March 20. Milk in powder or granule form was removed from the negative list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 495 June 27. Completely knocked-down motor vehi- cles were removed from the negative list. September 30. Twelve product groups (including most agricultural inputs, some raw materials for manufacturing industries, and capital goods and spare parts) were removed from the foreign ex- change allocation system for imports. December 22. Manufactured and semi- manufactured gold (excluding jewelry and gold- smith's wares) was removed from the negative list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accor- dance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 29, 1989, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.15614 and D 0.1577, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.9001 and D 0.9091, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain forward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date of signature of the contract or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be estab- lished for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maximum of 9 months for exports. Persons en- gaged in provision of services are eligible for ex- change cover for a term of up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days from the date on which the claim originated. Travel agencies are also allowed to obtain forward exchange cover for their hotel ac- tivities. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are permitted among foreign cur- rency operators. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident ex- porters and importers. The Central Bank extends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guar- anteed loans, with risk premiums based on domes- tic and international interest rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia; some authority over payments for 1 Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U .A .E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Luxembourg francs, Qatar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. imports and invisibles is delegated to the autho- rized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Commerce Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for products that are subject to import or export prohibition or liberalization in consultation with the Central Bank, as well as for imports that are subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and its trade agreements with foreign countries. The Min- istry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank issue import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Morocco, Algeria, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya may be effected through convertible accounts in the na- tional currencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special Accounts in Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars may be opened by (1) physical persons of Tunisian nationality changing their normal resi- dence to Tunisia from abroad, physical or juridical persons of Tunisian nationality entitled to the ex- change amnesty provided under Law No. 86/83 of September 1,1986, and any other physical or juridi- cal persons of Tunisian nationality for their assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) physical persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; and (3) foreign juridical persons for their establishment located in Tunisia. No formalities are required for the opening of these accounts by foreigners; a decla- ration of holdings, however, is required for Tuni- sians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the export of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder to undertake foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another special account in convertible dinars or currencies; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property, located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims). 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 497 Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars and Convert- ible Currencies may be opened freely by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. (Residents are also authorized to open similar accounts under special regulations.) These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible curren- cies to the Central Bank of Tunisia; banknotes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign cur- rencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Cen- tral Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars; (4) authorized payments by res- idents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other Foreign Accounts; and (7) the proceeds from the cashing of checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible cur- rencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization of the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irre- spective of the country of residence of the payer); (2) transfers to other Foreign Accounts; (3) the pur- chase of any foreign currency from or sales of any foreign exchange to the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident ben- eficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the ac- count holder. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by individ- uals of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars; these ac- counts may be opened freely, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. These accounts may be cred- ited with the nontransferable portion (usually 50 percent) of the income earned in Tunisia. Any residual balance may not be transferred abroad without authorization. Interest is paid at rates com- parable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Special Dinar Accounts can be freely opened by nonresident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Such enterprises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars for de- posit of the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a Foreign Account in Convertible Foreign Currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Inter- est is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. They may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes to be transferred abroad or trans- ferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be deb- ited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Gov- ernment or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a sus- pense file opened in the name of the account holder, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Suspense Account holder traveling in Tunisia be- tween November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the for- eign exchange imported for the trip and surren- dered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Up to D 50 a month a person may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident ac- count holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding Suspense Ac- counts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian na- tionality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 TUNISIA Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de Cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from another Capital Account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be freely debited for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more Capital Accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tuni- sian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insur- ance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Balances on Capital Accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the excep- tion of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be deb- ited to assist the account holder's parents and off- spring residing in Tunisia at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay inter- est and cannot be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not ex- ceeding D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding Capital Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa, and imports of some items from all sources are pro- hibited. A system of import controls is applied un- der which there are different procedures for dif- ferent operators (manufacturers, traders, and state monopolies) and special procedures for specified categories of transactions (e.g., export firms, and imports without payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected without restriction or are prohibited. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in the Official Gazette No. 75 of Novem- ber 27, 1981, as amended subsequently. Importation of liberalized products does not require prior autho- rization and is effected by an import certificate, ob- tained upon presentation of a commercial contract, domiciled with an authorized intermediary. The im- port certificate procedure may be used under cer- tain conditions by industrial enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw materials and semifinished products used in their produc- tion; enterprises exporting less than 15 percent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import certificate procedure may also be used (1) by promo- ters of authorized or declared investments for nor- mally prohibited imports of capital goods that are required for their projects, provided that they are indicated on the authorization, the declaration cer- tificate, or the decision to grant benefits, or (2) by commercial representatives in Tunisia of the sup- pliers of these goods and by leasing companies. Importation of prohibited products requires an annual import authorization, an import license, or an import card issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and endorsed by the Central Bank of Tunisia. An "annual import authorization" is avail- able to industrialists, to agencies responsible for providing the country with certain staples or indus- trial products, and to selected merchants; approvals are not transferable between transactors. Each in- dustrialist must submit a detailed document, giving information on expected import requirements for the following year, the actual consumption of im- ported inputs in the previous year, and on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authoriza- tions are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an automatic exten- sion of the portion unused on December 31 of that year for an additional one-year period. Importers may, in certain cases, make changes among the products specified in their import authorizations. During the year they may also request additional imports by documenting the depletion of the sched- uled amount allotted them. Import licenses are valid for six months. In some cases this period may be extended by the competent authorities in accordance with import require- ments. A subsection of the licensing system is in the form of "traders' quotas," applicable to certain com- modity groups, with special emphasis on consumer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 499 durables. Quotas are allocated on a "points sys- tem/' with the most important criteria relating to firm size (employment and turnover, the latter dif- ferentiating between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographical location, the degree of specialization, and the age of the firm are also considered in the allocation process. Certain imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources outside Tunisia, may be effected by enter- prises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. To meet urgent needs for their exclusive use, im- porters in particular sectors of economic activity (mainly, cottage craft industry and agriculture) may obtain "importers' cards" to cover goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year for each importer. State-trading organizations are the exclusive im- porters of about one fourth of the total value of imports, some 40 percent of which are in the form of energy products. Among the important public- trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des Cereales (grains), Ellouhoum (meat), and the Office National de 1'Huile (vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, tobacco, and medical products are imported exclusively by other state agencies. The state- trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of spec- ified products. For items that are not on the free list, state-trading agencies are required to complete the same licensing formalities as those applicable to the private sector. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may import freely any goods required for their pro- duction process, subject only to customs declara- tion. In specified cases, imports destined for domes- tic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duty. Importers must receive a customs code number as a prior condition for obtaining an import certifi- cate, an import authorization, an import license, or an import card. All import documents involving payments must be handled by one or more autho- rized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments that have received general or specific prior authorization. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies re- quired for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of twelve months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addi- tion to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the con- sumption tax. Payments for Invisibles In principle, all payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank, for which proper documentation is required. These transactions in- clude (1) various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commis- sions, and brokerage); and (2) payments for process- ing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trade- marks, fines, and court expenses. The following transactions have been delegated to authorized in- termediaries: (1) payment of interest and amortiza- tion arising from authorized contractual obligations to nonresidents; (2) insurance premiums; (3) subscriptions; (4) dividends of firms quoted on the stock market; and (5) school fees and expenses. Approval is also given freely for remittance of divi- dends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters may debit their profes- sional accounts (dossiers professionnels) without prior authorization (see section on Exports and Ex- port Proceeds, below) up to fixed limits for expendi- tures abroad in connection with participation in in- ternational trade fairs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Ex- porters, hotel owners, travel agencies, and other external service industries may freely debit their professional accounts for expenses related to pub- licity abroad, and up to fixed limits for certain other expenses. Resident enterprises producing for ex- port within the framework of Title 2 of Law No. 87- 51 may freely make payments abroad for their pro- duction activities, which are not subject to restric- tions as regards payments for invisibles. The con- vertible dinar amounts in exporting enterprises' business travel accounts and in the professional ac- counts of exporters and providers of services may be transferred without restriction up to a ceiling of D 40,000 depending upon the value of export sales. The amounts not used during a given year may be carried forward for the next two years so long as the total of such transfers does not exceed authorized ceilings in any one year. Institutions authorized to trade in cash and traveler's checks may open profes- sional accounts, which may be credited with 4 per- cent of the proceeds through transfers from autho- rized intermediaries and with the foreign exchange acquired from nonresident customers, and they may be debited up to D 2,000 a year to meet business travel expenses. A business travel allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank for industrialists and businessmen whose professional activity requires travel abroad and who are unable to open professional or busi- ness travel accounts under Law No. 87-51. The an- nual allocation for each beneficiary is initially ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 TUNISIA determined by the Central Bank at the time of ap- proval, taking into account the applicant's import turnover. In the years thereafter, the annual amount of the allocation is determined by the authorized intermediary with which the authorization is domiciled, using the same criteria. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 200 a person (D 100 for children under 10 years of age). The allocation may be accumulated for two consecutive years. The annual settlement allowance for students is the equivalent of D 500 for all countries; the monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equivalent of D 400 for stu- dents in Canada and the United States, D 300 for those in Western European countries, and D 240 for those in other countries. A foreign national em- ployed under contract may transfer up to 50 percent of his net wage or salary without limit if his family is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a maximum of D150 a month if his family lives in Tunisia.2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 percent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons traveling under the Agence de Cooperation Technique, emi- grant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children living in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempted from the tax. The export of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Unless central bank permission is ob- tained, the reconversion of domestic bank notes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 percent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, with a maximum of D 1,000 if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain nonenergy exports (amounting to about 10 percent 2There are special regulations for foreign nationals employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51. of the total in 1989) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 10 days from the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. When sales entail a payment guaran- tee, under certain conditions central bank approval is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign currencies represen- ting the proceeds from their merchandise exports through authorized intermediaries. Any resident individual, Tunisian, or foreign le- gal entity with foreign exchange receipts deriving from professional activity may freely open a profes- sional account in convertible dinars and deposit therein 10 percent of any foreign exchange proceeds received by authorized transfers. The same account may be used for 4 percent of domestic receipts in dinars from sales to resident industrial enterprises producing solely for export and to resident interna- tional trade firms. Authorized intermediaries may grant any surety or guarantee to resident exporters and providers of services in accordance with stan- dard international trade practices. Resident man- ufacturing industries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may arrange to credit 4 percent of their repatriated convertible currency export pro- ceeds to Business Travel Portfolios in Convertible Dinars. "Professional accounts" in foreign currency may be opened by exporters (excluding those in the chemical or energy sectors) who export more than 15 percent of their output, and may be credited with 20 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Bal- ances in these accounts may be used to finance expenditures abroad, including imports of goods and services. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened without the Central Bank's authorization by resident individuals and legal en- tities with resources in foreign exchange. These ac- counts may be credited and debited in accordance with terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. "Professional Accounts—Foreign Trade" in foreign exchange may be opened by resident international trade firms. These accounts are intended to cover the overheads and payments associated with international bro- kerage and foreign investment operations. Under the provisions of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-110, nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 501 companies (i.e., enterprises with at least 66 percent capital ownership by nonresidents and financed through the import of convertible currencies) pro- ducing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or pro- ceeds from invisibles received from foreign coun- tries. However, there are certain facilities associated with professional accounts and with professional accounts in foreign exchange for such proceeds or resources (see sections on Special Accounts in For- eign Currency or Convertible Dinars, and Exports and Export Proceeds—specifically, professional ac- counts in convertible dinars or in foreign exchange—above). Foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; non- resident travelers wishing to re-export the equiv- alent of over D 500 must make a currency declara- tion upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Tunisia may, in accordance with the sector involved, obtain the benefits pro- vided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35); Law No. 86-85 of September 1, 1986, providing incentives for investment in tourism; Law No. 87-51 of August 2, 1987, establishing the Industrial In- vestment Code; Law No. 88-110 of August 18,1988, providing incentives for international trading com- panies; Law No. 88-18 of August 24, 1988, pro- mulgating the Investment, Agricultural, and Fish- eries Code; and by Law No. 89-100 of November 17, 1989, establishing investment incentives in the ser- vices area. These benefits include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatri- ate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liquidation, even if these exceed the initial foreign exchange investment, plus the income from its capital. The transfer of invested principal and current earnings is subject to authori- zation. However, companies listed on the stock ex- change and resident industrial enterprises that pro- duce solely for export may freely transfer dividends to nonresident stockholders through an authorized intermediary. In general, repatriation of profits and dividends is approved automatically by the Central Bank when the enterprise is at least 65 percent foreign owned. Furthermore, Title 2 of Law No. 87- 51 and Law No. 88-110 provide for various special benefits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading companies, including an exemption from the repatriation re- quirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incen- tives for financial and banking establishments con- ducting business essentially with nonresidents, ex- tended the field of activity of such institutions; and they are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their nonresident customers and to en- gage in banking and exchange operations with resi- dents, in particular by providing foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, investing their own foreign exchange resources in equities of resident enterprises, and accepting funds from resi- dents that could be used to finance productive ac- tivities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are en- titled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before Au- gust 20, 1970;3 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20,1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1,1974 and Decem- ber 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after De- cember 31,1974; D 15,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1978, who are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and without limit for those of French nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank, except investment credits granted by resident banks to nonresident enterprises (Title 2 of Law No. 87-51) out of their external resources. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold re- quire joint authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Only den- tists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. 3Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 TUNISIA Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement January 5. The exchange rate guarantee scheme applicable to new officially guaranteed loans was modified, whereby risk premiums would be charged on the basis of domestic and foreign inter- est rate differentials. February 1. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month for- eign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars was permitted. Imports and Import Payments January 7. The production and value-added taxes on certain agricultural and biotechnology products were eliminated. July 20. The import tax on various livestock and cereal products and the value-added tax on imports of these products were suspended. July 27. The import tax on certain goods imported by craftsmen, including dyes, textiles, and ceramic materials, and the value-added tax on imports of these products were suspended. September 1. The list of liberalized imports, includ- ing a broad range of spare parts, maintenance equipment, raw materials, and products used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals was expanded. October 10. The value-added tax on imported medicines was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds April 14. "Professional accounts" in foreign cur- rency were established for industries exporting more than 15 percent of their output (except in the chemical or energy sectors). These accounts were permitted to be credited with 20 percent of retained export earnings, and allowed to be used to finance expenditures abroad, including imports of goods and services and foreign investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in re- spect of exchange transactions, and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the ex- change rate for the Turkish lira against the U.S. dollar is determined in the daily fixing sessions held in the Central Bank. Commercial banks, special fi- nance institutions, authorized institutions, and the Central Bank can participate in the daily fixing ses- sion by giving two-way quotations with spreads between the purchase and sale prices not exceeding 1 percent for a sum of US$200,000. Once the Turkish lira exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined in the fixing session, exchange rates for other currencies are set on the basis of their cross rate relationship with the U.S. dollar in inter- national markets. These rates then become the offi- cial exchange rate of the following day and are used in the Central Bank's transactions and for official, statistical purposes. Commercial banks, special fi- nancial institutions, and foreign exchange dealers, in their foreign exchange transactions not exceeding US$10,000, may set their exchange rates with max- imum deviations from official exchange rates of 1 percent for sales of foreign currency notes and 0.2 percent for sales of foreign exchange. Further- more, exchange rates set by these institutions for purchases of foreign currency notes and foreign exchange cannot exceed their respective sale prices. In commercial and noncommercial foreign ex- change transactions exceeding US$10,000, the ex- change rate is determined freely by the commercial banks. The commercial banks are also free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place through the interbank market. On December 29, 1989, the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 2,311.37 and LT 2,316.00, respectively, per US$1. On December 29, 1989, the average rate in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar was LT 2,310.84 per US$1. A Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) is designed to provide domestic borrowers with an exchange rate guarantee for approved for- eign borrowing. Foreign borrowing under the scheme is on-lent in Turkish liras at a domestic variable interest rate determined on a monthly basis. The difference between the Turkish lira ex- change rate charged on the foreign borrowing and any bank commission is credited to the scheme. The difference between the lira cost at the time it is contracted and the lira cost of repayments is covered from resources of the scheme. Commercial banks can freely deal in forward transactions within the predetermined limits im- posed by the Central Bank. Forward transactions are permitted, with terms ranging from 15 days to 6 months, except for interbank forward transactions for which the minimum time limit is 1 day. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with inter- national practices. Banks enter into swap transac- tions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Banks use this facility mostly to provide Turkish liras. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is at- tached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regu- lates all matters related to foreign exchange opera- tions. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account, including allocating foreign ex- change for imports not subject to prior permit. In the case of imports subject to prior permit, autho- rized commercial banks directly allocate foreign ex- change and issue import licenses upon receiving the approved import permit from the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The Under- secretariat also issues export licenses but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. Prescription of Currency Settlements under bilateral payments agree- ments are made in U.S. dollars. Certain commercial transactions with Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TURKEY Czechoslovakia, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malta, Morocco, Poland, Romania, Sudan, Tunisia, and the U.S.S.R., and with the other members of the Economic Cooperation Or- ganization (ECO) are made through special ac- counts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange with authorized commercial banks. Such accounts are disposable at the discre- tion of the holders. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable except those ex- plicitly prohibited or subject to prior permit. Only imports of narcotics, stereopten, weapons, foreign coins made of silver and other metals (excluding foreign coins made of gold), and ammunition are prohibited without a special permit from the au- thorities. Imports of other goods are divided into two categories. The first category contains goods subject to licenses issued by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, consists of 37 items, mainly raw materials, spare parts, intermediate goods and tools for industry, and electrical equip- ment. The second category of imports covers goods not subject to prior licensing that can enter the country only after payment of a specific levy (in addition to customs duties) to certain extra budge- tary funds ("funds list"). The magnitude of the levy varies between items, and its structure has been changed from time to time. The importation of all goods not included on ei- ther of the above lists is freely permitted after pay- ment of customs duties. However, imports of used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be made only with spe- cial permission from the Undersecretariat of Trea- sury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for, a project, permission may be given by the State Planning Organization. Imports from countries where foreign trade is nationalized may be carried out by public sector companies or foreign trade-incorporated companies, provided they ex- port to these countries. All imports by the public sector have to be authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months. The validity may be extended by an authorized commercial bank for up to 12 additional months and can be fur ther extended by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Import licenses are issued to registered im- porters, industrialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. In the case of freely importable items, including those on the "funds list," no special permit is required for any autho- rized person to apply for an import license to any bank. The import license permits the necessary for- eign exchange payments to be made and permits goods to be cleared through customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, docu- ments, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or by way of acceptance credits. Partial prepayments are authorized under certain conditions. Guarantee deposits, which must be made by the importer before the import license is issued, are refunded after the goods are cleared through customs and the foreign payment has been made. These deposits do not earn interest. The general guarantee deposit rate is 5 percent of the foreign exchange requested, which applies to imports by commercial importers. This was raised to 15 percent on October 14,1988, but was reduced to 5 percent in 1989. Imports for the Izmir International Fair, cer- tain imports of the public sector, private sector im- ports financed by foreign exchange from importers' own accounts, imports of investment goods for the manufacturing industries, electrical energy, books and other publications, portions of imports paid for with a foreign credit with more than a one-year term, fuel oil, natural gas, wheat, sugar, coal, fertil- izer, vegetable oils, medicine, x-ray photographs, imports of specially equipped cars for the disabled, and imports covered by an incentive certificate for regions with a development priority are exempted from the guarantee deposit requirement. Exporters who make use of their own foreign exchange ac- counts to pay for imports that are not subject to prior authorization are also exempted from the guarantee deposit requirement; in addition, they are ex- empted from this requirement for up to the equiv- alent of 30 percent of the foreign exchange held in such accounts for imports that are subject to prior authorization. Regulations concerning imports without alloca- tion of foreign exchange by the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or pro- fessional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey, and temporary imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties are based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. The rates range mostly up to 10 percent on raw mate- rials, between 10 percent and 30 percent on inter- mediate and semifinished products, and between ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 505 30 percent and 50 percent on finished goods. Higher rates apply to certain consumer goods con- sidered luxuries. Imported goods are also subject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 percent of the declared value; and (3) a quay duty of 5 percent on the sum of c .i .f. value, customs duty, municipal tax, and customs clearance expense. Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisible transactions relating to all services to nonresidents at home or abroad. All residents may travel abroad with a maximum of US$3,000 a person without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks, and banks are per- mitted to sell to residents up to US$3,000 a person without restriction. Outbound travelers are subject to a tax equivalent to US$100, payable in Turkish liras, regardless of whether there are related pur- chases of foreign exchange; the tax is reduced by one half for travelers 18 years of age or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the per- mission of the governor of the province concerned and immigrants and refugees traveling abroad are required to pay the tax in Turkish liras equivalent to US$25 and US$50, respectively. Exempted from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes, and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by Administrative Permits; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private stu- dents going abroad for education purposes; and (8) civil servants (and their families) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of US$3,000 in Turkish lira notes and coins; nonresidents may take out without restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange that they brought in. Provided that the foreign exchange was declared at the time of entry, nonresident trav- elers may reconvert liras into foreign currency upon presentation of documents showing that foreign ex- change had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 or its equivalent, provided that they de- clared such amounts on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports fall into the following catego- ries: (1) exports subject to permission of the Under- secretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade, including temporary exports; transit trade; re-exports; expor- tation of already imported goods in their original form; exports made to substitute already exported goods that could not be delivered to, or had been rejected by, their buyer and have been brought back or committed to be brought back or permitted for sale under other conditions since their return is not considered economical; forward sales; barter trade and related transactions; exports from free zones inside or outside Turkey or from duty-free ware- houses that are not subject to license or registration against convertible foreign exchange; and exports to be realized by the construction companies that are awarded construction, installation, and erection work abroad; (2) exports subject to the license is- sued by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and For- eign Trade or the authorized professional institu- tions, applicable to the following 11 items (rice, fodder, crude vegetable oils, oil seeds, all live or dead hunting animals or their meats, furs and em- balmments, all kinds of hides and leathers—raw, semifinished, or finished leathers, or sole leathers—live cattle and sheep, opium poppy heads, licorice roots, and fertilizers except chemical fertilizers); (3) exports subject to registration, in- cluding exports on consignment or on joint account (fresh fruits except citrus, fresh vegetables includ- ing onions and potatoes, wine except from EC coun- tries, Turkish delight and candies, meat products, all kinds of fresh and frozen water products except crawfish, gift articles except carpets, kilims, and prayer rugs), exports on credit, exports related to bilateral agreements, and exports of certain prod- ucts to specific countries that are determined by the Undersecretariat and required to be registered as "Free Export Declarations"; and (4) free exports (ex- ports not based on any permission, license, or regis- tration) requiring registration as "Free Export Decla- rations." Barter trade is prohibited, except for authorized public sector agencies and export com- panies with export earnings of at least US$50 million a calendar year. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports is 70 percent. Retained foreign exchange may be deposited in for- eign exchange accounts with commercial banks, kept abroad, or disposed of. The maximum period allowed for the surrender of at least 70 percent of export proceeds is 180 days from the date of export shipment. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded for certain exported goods consisting mostly of industrial goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 TURKEY Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey. For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services) as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name and on behalf of nonresidents can be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in the form of foreign exchange or in kind and must obtain a license from the Foreign Capital Department of the State Planning Organization. Consistent with the prevailing foreign investment policy, proposals in almost all sectors of business are approved, provided that a minimum of 50 per- cent of foreign capital is brought in by foreign inves- tors. Exempt from this requirement are certain in- vestments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments or the Petroleum Law. The proceeds of sales and liquidation of foreign capital by banks and fi- nancial institutions may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad up to the equivalent of US$25 million in cash or in kind with authorization from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Higher amounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Nonresi- dents may transfer abroad without restriction pro- ceeds from sales of real estate purchased with for- eign exchange remitted from abroad. Purchases and sales of Turkish securities quoted in the stock ex- change by nonresidents and purchases of foreign securities by residents are free, provided that the transactions are carried out by authorized agents. Commercial banks may open "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are obligated to hold for- eign exchange liquidity against letters of credit com- mitments, acceptance credits, pre-export financing, and foreign exchange loans guaranteed by banks with a maturity of up to six months, as well as direct foreign exchange borrowing by the banks. The ratio of all foreign currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign ex- change overdrafts and foreign exchange loans re- ceived from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement. This ratio is calculated on the basis of three categories: the U.S. dollar, the deut- sche mark, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of other convertible currencies. The exchange rate risk used in relation to foreign exchange position manage- ment is 85 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for the first two categories, and 90 per- cent (minimum) and 110 percent (maximum) for the third category. The minimum utilization ratio of for- eign currency deposits is 50 percent (i.e., banks must extend 50 percent of foreign currency deposits as foreign credit). Gold The Central Bank of Turkey is authorized to im- port gold into Turkey and conduct purchase and sale transactions with the public without restriction. A gold market is established in the Central Bank, in which gold conforming to international standards is sold to the banks and authorized institutions in ex- change for foreign currency. Banks and authorized institutions in turn sell gold to the public in ex- change for Turkish liras. The import and export of processed precious metal stones and goods for com- mercial purposes are not restricted. However, the Prime Ministry determines the qualifications of the authorized companies to conduct business. Trav- elers may bring into or take out of Turkey their personal precious metals or stones valued at up to US$15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement June 16. The Government announced that new credits insured under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) would be at variable inter- est rates. Further changes were announced on June 28, including reduced limits for guarantees provided to investors using external credits. September 12. The Money and Credit Board lowered the required export component of projects covered by the FERIS scheme to 20 percent from 40 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Imports of investment goods for the manufacturing industries were exempted from the import guarantee deposit requirement. January 1. The "Harmonized Commodity De- scription and Coding System/7 rearranging the customs nomenclature, was adopted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 507 January 1. Customs tariffs on imports from the EC were reduced, on average, by about 10 percent, narrowing the discrepancy between the Turkish and EC customs tariffs to about 20 percent. March 7. The consolidation rate of the list of liber- alized goods (imported from the EC) was raised to 45 percent from 40 percent. March 27. The customs tariffs on iron and steel products were reduced or eliminated and replaced with lower fund duties, while imports of newsprint were made subject to a levy. April 19. The import guarantee deposit rate was lowered to 12 percent. It was announced that the rate would be lowered to 7 percent on May 1 and to 5 percent on June 1. May 24. The customs tariffs on 383 commodities and the surcharges on 192 commodities were lowered. June 20. Imported products transported to Turkey via highway, air, or railway were subjected to a transportation infrastructure duty of 2 percent, while imports by sea were subjected to a duty of 4 percent. June 21. The Government approved an antidump- ing law to become effective September 1. Under the law, the Government would be able to levy counter- vailing duties equivalent to the dumping margin or the level of subsidy maintained by the exporting country. June 24. Some petroleum products were added to the "Customs Tax Rate List" and some to the list of "Imports Subject to Fund Surcharge." August 9. Further cuts in customs tariffs and the reduction or elimination of levies for the extra- budgetary funds were announced for a large num- ber of items. The measure mainly covered consumer goods, including consumer durables. (Additional cuts covering textiles, chemicals, petrochemicals, and construction materials, were announced on Au- gust 21). September 23. Further cuts in customs tariffs and surcharges on a wide range of goods were announced. October 1. The antidumping law entered into effect. October 18. Twenty-six products were removed from the prior permission list. October 19. The customs tariffs and other import levies on many goods, including luxury cars and tires, were lowered. October 26. The Resource Utilization and Support Fund fee levied on imported inputs was lowered to 1 percent from 6 percent. November 3. Some one thousand items were put on a "List of Investment Goods, Imports of Which Are to be Encouraged Directly." For items on this list, the advance import deposit requirement and import certification requirements were abolished, customs tariffs were eliminated, and the fund levies were lowered to between 5 and 35 percent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles August 11. Travelers are permitted to take out of the country up to the equivalent of US$3,000 in Turkish Bank notes. All resident Turkish nationals were permitted to travel abroad with a maximum of US$3,000 or its equivalent. Additional amounts may be taken out with verification that foreign exchange was obtained from commercial banks. Residents of Turkey were permitted to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000. There are no limits on the number of transactions from commercial banks or private financial institutions. September 14. Adult ethnic Turks arriving from Bulgaria with a 15-day tourist visa were required to have the equivalent of at least US$1,050 in convert- ible currencies; children under the age of 18 were required to have the equivalent of at least US$750 in convertible currencies. November 18. The ceiling on foreign exchange that travelers are permitted to take abroad without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks was raised to US$3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds February 15. The establishment of the Eximbank program of post-shipment credits was announced. (Disbursements began in March.) March 1. The Turkish Eximbank established a US$150 million facility to support exports of Turkish consumer goods to the U.S.S.R. The facility was initially funded by borrowing from domestic com- mercial banks and was refinanced through external borrowing. Credits are to be repaid in two years at a rate of 20 basis points over LIBOR. In July, an addi- tional US$150 million facility for nonagricultural ex- ports was announced. The Turkish Eximbank announced the establish- ment of the Short-Term Whole Turnover Insurance Program. The program is designed to promote the export of Turkish goods on credit by insuring Turk- ish exporters on market terms against commercial and political risks. June 1. The maximum term on Eximbank preship- ment credits was raised to 180 days from 120 days, and the interest charge on 90-day credits was lowered by 2 percentage points to 37 percent. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 TURKEY credit limit for individual firms was raised to LT 4 billion from LT 500 million. June 13. New legislation, clarifying the duties and powers of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and For- eign Trade in line with the Treasury's charter, was introduced, and the requirements for export li- censes were eliminated. June 20. The Central Bank announced that it would reimburse Turkish exporters holding out- standing claims on Iraq arising from exports on credit. Under the credit program suspended in 1988, the Central Bank provided partial credit coverage with the remainder being made available by the exporting firm. July. A US$100 million Eximbank facility for ex- ports to Algeria was announced. (Utilization is to begin in August.) August 2. A 2 percent marketing premium based on the value of exports in 1989 was introduced for major exporters (foreign trade companies with ex- ports of at least US$100 million in 1988 that pledge to export at least US$100 million in 1989). The pre- mium will be paid from the Support and Price Stabi- lization Fund and administered by the Turkish Eximbank. August 11. The surrender requirement was lowered to 70 percent from 80 percent, with the maximum period allowed for the surrender of 180 days from the date of export shipments. October 1. The transfer requirement for commer- cial banks for receipts of foreign exchange was lowered to 22 percent from 23 percent. (On Novem- ber 2, the requirement was further lowered to 20 percent.) October 28. It was announced that the "Special Export Rediscount Credits Program" would be phased out and replaced by the "Foreign Trade Capital Companies Rediscount Credit Program." The new program will be virtually identical to the previous program, except that the subsidized credits, which will be equal to 5 percent of the value of exports of the previous 12-month period, will carry a maturity of only 90 days. November 12. Legislation was drawn up, establish- ing a 1 percent marketing premium similar to that established in August for major exporters. The pre- mium would be available to exporters whose real- ized exports exceeded US$10 million in 1988 and 1989. Capital June 19. Amendments to the Corporation Tax Law and Income Tax Law, exempting "investment funds subject to limited tax liability," were adopted. For- eign investment funds approved by the Treasury were allowed to set up securities portfolios, the in- come from which would be tax free. August 11. Applications by residents of Turkey to make direct investments overseas of up to US$25 million or its equivalent were subject to approval (by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade). The export of capital exceeding this amount was subject to approval by the Council of Ministers, upon recommendation of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. August 11. Foreign residents were allowed to pur- chase or sell any type of Turkish securities regis- tered on the stock exchange through intermediary institutions operating on the market and to transfer the income or proceeds from sales of these se- curities abroad through banks and authorized fi- nancial institutions, provided that such proceeds would not be transferred abroad. If the securities had not been purchased with funds transferred from abroad, the proceeds from the sales of se- curities would be allowed to be utilized freely in Turkey. September 13. The foreign exchange risk ratios that determine the maximum and minimum ratios of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities commercial banks may hold were widened to 85-115 percent from 90-110 percent. Gold April 10. The Central Bank established facilities for selling gold to commercial banks for foreign exchange and for the interbank trading of gold against foreign exchange. Commercial banks in turn are permitted to sell gold to domestic residents in exchange for domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. On December 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 364.08 and U Sh 378.80, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 0.4 percent buying and 0.6 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies1 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates. Authorized banks may, subject to exchange control approval, deal forward with customers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers im- pose a service charge of not more than 0.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Ac- count in Uganda, or in any other currency that is Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be ob- tained in Uganda shillings from an external account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Uganda main- tains bilateral trade and payments agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Yugoslavia. External Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries who are living in Uganda are des- ignated external accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other external ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign exchange currency and gold by nonresi- dents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to blocked accounts main- tained with commercial banks. Subject to prior ap- proval, balances on blocked accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan nationals or institutions with funds abroad may be authorized to operate Con- vertible Currency Accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Intending operators of such accounts are required to disclose the sources of the funds and to put up a minimum of the equivalent of US$5,000 to open the account. These accounts can be freely debited, and other governing regulations are similar to those for the regime of External Accounts (see above). The minimum balance in each such account 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 UGANDA must be US$3,000, below which the account is liable to closure by the Bank of Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports are controlled through the import licensing and foreign exchange allocation systems. A monthly foreign exchange budget is pre- pared by a Ministerial Committee on Foreign Ex- change Allocation. Foreign exchange allocations to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing approval of the Central Tender Board, an original budget authorization, and the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury or a duly designated officer. Once an importer has received a foreign exchange allocation, an import license is granted automatically. An approved for- eign exchange allocation must be purchased from the Bank of Uganda within 21 days by a commercial bank, and the importer must make a (interest bear- ing) margin deposit of 100 percent of the shilling value of the foreign exchange allocation with that bank. A modification of the above procedures is applica- ble to imports in sectors eligible for the Open Gen- eral License (OGL) system. Under this system, which was introduced in November 1987, foreign exchange is made freely available for imports of inputs by specific enterprises in five key industries (soap, tobacco, beverages, textiles, and cement). In practice, because the demand for imports under the OGL system exceeds the foreign exchange made available for this purpose, eligible firms are granted approval only for a specific total value of imports during a six-month period. Requests to draw on these amounts are considered in conjunction with the monthly foreign exchange budget formulation. The Central Bank may object to the granting of foreign exchange for such imports either because the quoted import price or the import volume is considered excessive. Foreign exchange for OGL imports is obtained from import support funds pro- vided by the World Bank, the EC, and bilateral donors. Under a special import program (SIP) (intro- duced in December 1988), monthly allocations of foreign exchange are made to certain categories of imports on a first-come first-served basis. In order to receive such exchange allocations, an advance deposit of 100 percent is required, and it cannot be financed with credit obtained from commercial banks. The SIP was liberalized in June 1989, permit- ting additional imports and some service payments. By the end of October 1989 the SIP was inoperative due to lack of foreign exchange. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, and a commission of 0.5 percent of the license value is levied. In addition, the importer must prepay customs duties and sales taxes applica- ble to the prospective imports. The Ministry of Commerce also issues licenses for private sector imports financed from the importers' own foreign exchange resources without an official allocation. In these cases, the Ministry examines the application to ensure that price and quantity are reasonable. Import shipments are subject to inspection by inter- national agencies to ensure that the invoice price corresponds to the actual value. Anyone wishing to import goods valued in excess of US$20,000 is required to submit pro forma in- voices from three different suppliers, except in the case of repeater and proprietary imports. Normally, imports must be purchased directly from the coun- try of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within four months of the date of payment in the case of goods shipped by surface transportation, and within two months for goods brought into the country by air. Cash imports are permitted only on a c. & f. basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to approval by the Committee on Invisible Imports of the Bank of Uganda, in the context of the monthly foreign ex- change budget. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For business travel a daily allowance of US$100-!40 a person is granted, up to an annual limit of US$2,000 a person. The maximum yearly travel allowance for purposes other than business is US$500 a person. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside Uganda at the time of their overseas leave, subject to the terms of the original contract. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and second- ary education abroad. Allowances for postsecond- ary education abroad are based on estimates of tuition fees, board and lodging, and incidental ex- penses; foreign exchange is not normally provided when a comparable level of instruction is provided in Uganda. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment that includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. At this time, they may also remit a fur ther US$5,000. Allowances for medical and ad- vertising expenses are considered on a case-by-case ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 511 basis. Applications to remit profits, dividends, and interest payments are approved on a case-by-case basis. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit specified below in the section on Capital. The export of Uganda bank notes and coins by travelers is pro- hibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 300. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and may be restricted to ensure suffi- cient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Cof- fee Marketing Board has a monopoly over the export of coffee; and the Lint Marketing Board, over the export of raw cotton. Parastatal organizations are also involved in the export of the following com- modities: the Produce Marketing Board in the ex- port of maize, beans, soybeans, sesame seeds, and peanuts; the Uganda Leather and Tanning Industry for hides and skins; and Uganda Hardware for tim- ber. Export licenses for these products, however, are also granted to other exporters, subject to deter- mination by the relevant organization that price and quality are reasonable and domestic supplies are adequate. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 1) must be collected within four months for goods shipped overseas and within two months for goods exported to neighboring countries or by air to any destination and, except for certain nontradi- tional agricultural exports, as described below, sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in turn surrender these pro- ceeds to the Bank of Uganda within three business days; failure to do so entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 percent above the LIBOR or prime rate in the country where the funds are held. Coffee and cotton are subject to an export duty. Exporters of all agricultural products other than coffee may retain all or part of the foreign exchange proceeds. Exporters wishing to exercise this option are granted an import license at the time they re- ceive an export license of equivalent (or greater) value, for use in conjunction with imports financed within 180 days of the receipt of the export license. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank within 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 300 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denomi- nated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval, and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11,1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally trans- fer their assets up to the equivalent of US$10,000 for each family unit from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is transferred af ter a period of five years; the accrued interest is also released but not remitted. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on non- guaranteed overseas borrowing by resident com- panies or individuals. Foreign investment is permit- ted in Uganda with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as' public utilities, transportation, telecommunications, ship- ping, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, ani- mal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tour- ism, the Government may pre-empt a certain per- centage of the ownership but does accept private investment from both domestic and foreign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the in- vestment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, ap- proved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production re- quires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 UGANDA Uganda that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other capital transfers and all invisible payments not specified above are freely permitted up to an aggregate maximum allowance of US$500 a person a year, provided there is adequate evidence to sup- port the application. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 5 is legal tender but in practice does not circu- late. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or sil- versmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the form of ingots, bars, or sheets; and gold coins. Im- port licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangements During 1989, the Ugandan shilling was devalued on several occasions, from U Sh 165 per US$1 at the end of 1988 to U Sh 375 per US$1 on November 27. June 14. A second exchange rate of U Sh 400 per US$1 was introduced solely for the purchase of for- eign exchange to import under the revised special import program (SIP II). (This exchange rate was abolished on November 27.) Imports and Import Payments March 31. The special import program (SIP I) be- came inoperative owing to a lack of foreign exchange. June 14. A revised and less restrictive special im- port program (SIP II) was introduced. Except for a small negative list, SIP II allowed the purchase of foreign exchange for all imports on a first-come first- served basis. November 1. The SIP II became inoperative. Exports and Export Proceeds March 7. The export-retention scheme for agri- cultural exports was extended to all commodities other than coffee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the offi- cial rate; since November 1980, the U.A.E dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and the Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange trans- actions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 mil- lion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. irThe seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are pro- hibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported with- out an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to any customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an ex- port license to any destination other than South Africa and Israel. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be re- patriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8, 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold up to 75 percent of equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and con- struction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2, 1984). Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Cen- tral Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with or lending to nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Central Bank swap facilities are not made available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes is undertaken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments March 14. The United Arab Emirates and the United States concluded agreement concerning im- ports into the United States of five major categories of clothing; the agreement replaced the embargo (of November 1988) on imports into the United States of four categories of clothing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain fixed margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. At times when the rate is rising or falling, the authorities may intervene in the foreign exchange market with a view to moderating excessive fluctuations and pre- serving orderly markets. On December 29,1989, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange mar- kets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.6130 and US$1.6120, respectively, per £ 1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import-licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;1 the CEFTA Area;2 the Community Area;3 the Dollar Area;4 the Far Eastern and West- ern Area;5 the Mediterranean Area;6 the OCT Area;7 the State Trading Area;8 the Residual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. aThe ACP Area comprises Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Domin- ica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the excep- tion of certain textile goods,10 and the following exceptions at the end of 1989: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;11 Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Si- erra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swazi- land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 2The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, the Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (West), Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 3The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 4The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pan- ama, the Philippines, the United States, and Venezuela. 5The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Can- ada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 6The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 7The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Is- lands, the Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Poly- nesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, the Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Depen- dencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, Anguilla, and West Indies Associated States. 8The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic and Berlin (East), Hungary, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 9The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territo- ries other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Re- public, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indo- nesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Pan- ama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Uru- guay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 10The restrictions of textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area other than Spain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. 11 The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported only if consignments are certified that bu f fer stock payments required under the interna- tional cocoa agreement of 1986 have been made. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 UNITED KINGDOM (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of com- modities; (3) from the German Democratic Re- public, Berlin (East), and the U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (4) from the State Trading Area only, eight commodities or groups of commodities; and (5) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported un- der the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licensing, under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain informa- tion. Most articles subject to specific import licens- ing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously im- posed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to European Communities (EC) regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling bank notes may be dispatched to nonresi- dents against payment in sterling or in any foreign currency. For any type of travel, U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc. can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign cur- rency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after their return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.12 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars when the U.K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £ 10 million may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- mission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invis- ibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other bank notes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial ownership of residents of other countries. All pro- ceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct invest- ments) are remittable at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other country may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United Kingdom by nonresi- dents or abroad by residents.13 However, invest- ments involving the takeover of existing U.K. com- panies that are considered a vital part of U.K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufacturing undertakings. There are no restrictions on transactions in ster- ling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and pay- ing agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dispatched abroad freely. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to pru- dential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 12Exports of certain commodities are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and interna- tional agreements. 13There is a voluntary ban on new direct investment in South Africa by residents, which was announced on October 30,1986. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 517 0.45 percent non-interest-bearing deposit require- ment with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or after 1961 and originating in South Africa. Gold sovereigns and Britannias, a new gold coin introduced in October 1987, are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £ 8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated by the European Eco- nomic Community during 1989, page 567.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10, 1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers li- censing programs involving direct or indirect finan- cial or commercial transactions with Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea,1 the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam or their nationals,1 as well as the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, and the Libyan Sanc- tions Regulations. It also has administrative respon- sibility for blocked accounts of the above countries, as well as accounts of Estonia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations.2 The Department of the Treasury also regulates certain trade and transportation-related activities involving Nicaragua under the Nicaragua Trade Control Regulations and the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations, and administers restrictions on certain trade, lend- ing, and investment activities involving South Af- rica under the South African Transactions Regula- tions pursuant to the Comprehensive Anti- Apartheid Act of 1986. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce, with representatives from other agen- cies, decides when to request consultation with ex- porting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas on sugar and prod- ucts containing sugar are set on an annual basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items—the Department of Commerce is, in general, the re- sponsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations for security reasons on transactions in- volving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and the authorities of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; those on direct trade and related transactions involving Nicaragua; those on loans and investments involving South Africa; and, to a very limited extent (see footnote 2), those affecting certain assets of the Government of the Islamic Re- public of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities. However, certain payments to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya related to authorized travel are permit- ted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited remittances to the remit- ter's close relatives in Cuba and the Socialist Re- public of Viet Nam are also permitted. 1As cited in the relevant national regulations. 2Payments to the Islamic Republic of Iran, except for payments from Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981, were autho- rized by general license on January 19,1981, pursuant to Execu- tive Orders and regulations issued thereunder. Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981 have, with limited exceptions, been transferred to the Islamic Republic of Iran or to various escrow accounts as set forth in the January 19, 1981 agreements between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments Importation of goods and services originating in or representing a property interest of Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the So- cialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and Nicaragua are prohibited 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 519 under Treasury regulations, unless specifically au- thorized. In addition, importation is prohibited from South Africa of gold coins, uranium in the form of ore or oxide, coal, textiles, iron and steel, military articles, agricultural products, food, sugar, and any products grown, produced, manufactured, marketed, or otherwise exported by parastatal or- ganizations of South Africa, pursuant to the Com- prehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. The same Act prohibits the importation of gold coins from the U.S.S.R. Import quotas are in effect for certain products, including cotton, certain cotton waste and prod- ucts, many dairy products, peanuts, sugar and cer- tain products containing sugar, and certain spe- cialty steel products. Quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. All quantitative import quotas, ex- cept those for peanuts, certain cotton products, but- ter, butter oil, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country- of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains 30 bilateral textile agreements negotiated in accor- dance with the MFA's provisions, and 12 agree- ments with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of tex- tiles and apparel to the United States in specific product categories and provide for orderly expan- sion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine if market disruption exists or is threatened. When necessary, consultations with ex- porting countries are requested to establish limitations. Imports, of a limited number of manufactured products (i.e., steel, machine tools, and shakes and shingles) are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries. Free-trade area agreements are in force with Israel and with Canada. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries has been in operation in the United States since January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through July 4,1993. Under a procedure referred to as "product graduation/' eligibility for duty-free treatment can be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country has be- come competitive. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to beneficiary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Com- mon Market (CARICOM); cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. Exempted from competitive needs limits is a cate- gory of countries designated as "least developed" beneficiaries; currently, 32 countries are thus desig- nated.3 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Re- covery Act, 22 countries and entities4 have been designated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified imports for the period through Septem- ber 30, 1995. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as instru- ments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce adminis- ters controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, of goods of foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) All exports from the United States to Cuba, Dem- ocratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and Nicaragua (with the exception of publications and other information materials, personal baggage, and Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Haiti, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 4Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Brit- ish Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trin- idad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 UNITED STATES similar items) are prohibited unless individually li- censed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. Exports of crude oil and petroleum products and materials and technol- ogy connected with nuclear power to South Africa are also prohibited, as are exports of computer tech- nology and items on the U.S. munitions list to spec- ified South African agencies. Exports to all other countries, except Canada, of designated strategic materials and equipment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in transac- tions in strategic goods involving certain socialist countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- nating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). This program is administered pursuant to the Transaction Control Regulation. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than Afghanistan, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jam- ahiriya, Nicaragua, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, distribution licenses may be obtained to cover multiple shipments. The licensing require- ments applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, which was amended in 1985, the President can sus- pend the export of nonagricultural goods for rea- sons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspension of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a direct security threat exists. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean products, cotton, and several others, ex- porting companies are required to participate in a reporting system that is designed to improve mar- ket information and allow for more orderly export- ing. The proceeds of exports are not subject to ex- change control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, most payments to the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and certain payments relating to Nic- aragua and South Africa.5 U.S. residents are al- lowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close rela- tives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Re- ceipts of funds from Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam are generally prohibited, as are certain types of payments from the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Cer- tain transactions in connection with authorized travel in these countries are permitted. Receipt of funds from Nicaragua is prohibited to the extent that they relate to unauthorized transactions. Indi- viduals leaving or entering the United States with more than US$10,000 in domestic or foreign cur- rency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer- form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain trans- actions with, or involving, Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and, to a lesser ex- tent, Nicaragua. (See footnote 5 concerning the Is- lamic Republic of Iran.) New investments by U.S. nationals in South Africa are prohibited, subject to limited exceptions. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the United States Government. The Act does not apply to those for- eign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or 5Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving stand-by letters of credit, performance bonds, and similar obligations contracted prior to January 19, 1981 are subject to restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 521 leaving the United States when they are carrying more than US$10,000 in cash or negotiable instru- ments (as well as corresponding reporting require- ments for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a signifi- cant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial con- trol must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States im- pose varying restrictions on purchases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encouraging place- ment of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual cur- rencies, are not subject to limitations of a quantita- tive nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and maintain prudent positions. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, are subject to reserve re- quirements by the Federal Reserve system. Loans and extension of credit to or acceptance of deposits from the South African Government or its entities are prohibited; trade credits are exempted. Beginning December 3, 1981, U.S. chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,6 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks were allowed to establish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution es- tablishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements of Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the mini- mum transaction amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are sub- ject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. Effective Decem- 6These are defined as domestically chartered corporations au- thorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. ber 31, 1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept foreign currency deposits. A number of indi- vidual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the So- cialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and Nicaragua. Imports of South African Krugerrand and other South African gold coins, and gold coins minted in the U.S.S.R. are prohibited under the Comprehensive Anti- Apartheid Act of 1986, as are imports of gold bullion marketed by the Reserve Bank of South Africa. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry, except gold jewelry fashioned from U.S.S.R. or South African gold coins, are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The United States replaced its existing tariff schedule with the Harmonized Tariff Sched- ule, the first major change in its commodity classi- fication and tariff structure in 25 years. Also, new textile import controls and visa arrangements based on the Harmonized System of Commodity Classi- fication became effective. The new system stan- dardized the numerical classification of goods traded in world markets. Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan Province of China were removed ("graduated") from the list of beneficiaries under ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 UNITED STATES the U.S. GSP, because they did not meet the com- petitive need criteria under the scheme; the decision affected an estimated US$10 billion in U.S. imports. Sanctions (in the form of 100 percent ad valorem duties) were imposed on imports of coffee, pork, and tomatoes from the European Community (EC) valued at US$100 million in response to the EC's ban on hormone-enhanced beef and beef products. On January 12, 1989, agreement was reached with the EC on a grace period for the affected products, whereby the EC agreed to allow U.S. beef and beef by-products that had received a veterinary certifi- cate for export before January 1,1989 to enter the EC markets before February 1, 1989; and the United States reciprocated by exempting from duties those imports from the EC that were on the U.S. retalia- tory list, provided that these products entered the United States before February 1, 1989. On Feb- ruary 20, 1989, a joint task force was established to examine ways to resolve the hormone dispute. On May 3, 1989, a tentative agreement was reached, under which there would be a partial resumption of U.S. beef exports to the EC; in turn, the United States agreed to lower the level of retaliatory import sanctions against the EC. However, the dispute over the health effects of growth hormones remained unresolved. In July and November 1989, in response to the partial resumption of meat exports to the EC, the retaliatory 100 percent ad valorem tariffs on U.S. imports of pork hams and tomato sauces from the EC were removed. The 1989 sugar import quotas, announced on De- cember 15, 1988, became effective; the total autho- rized import of sugar was 1.13 million metric tons, 17 percent higher than the 1988 import quota. (See also entry for September 12.) The bilateral agreement restricting textile imports from Jamaica, which was scheduled to expire at the end of 1989, was extended to the end of 1992. A voluntary export restraint was negotiated on textiles and clothing imports from the United Arab Emirates. January 4. The U.S. Customs Service reclassified certain vehicles as trucks, thereby subjecting them to the 25 percent import duty on trucks, as opposed to a duty of 2.5 percent for passenger cars. Follow- ing a review of this decision by the Treasury Depart- ment, on February 16, 1989, it was clarified that imported two-door sport/utility vehicles would be subject to the import duty for trucks (25 percent), but that four-door models of such vehicles and vans with rear seats, rear-side windows, and a rear-side door would continue to be subject to the import duty for passenger cars (2.5 percent). January 17. All trade in products made of elephant parts was banned in implementation of the Conven- tion on Trade in Endangered Species. (See also en- try for June 9.) January 19. Thailand was denied duty-free bene- fits under the GSP because of alleged failure to protect U.S. intellectual property rights. The mea- sure, which was taken in accordance with the Trade Act of 1974, affected eight products representing US$165 million a year in Thai exports to the United States, which would henceforth face duties of be- tween 2.5 and 25.7 percent. The affected products were wood furniture, mosaic ceramic floor tiles, artificial flowers, jewelry, telegraphic and tele- phonic connection equipment, rice meal and flour, dried mung beans, and precious metal jewelry. January 20. The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) established or revised quota allocations for stainless steel bar and rod and alloy tool steel from Argentina, Austria, and Hungary (54 FR 3173). These changes were authorized under the import relief program for the specialty steel industry. Trade sanctions against the Socialist People's Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya were modified to allow five U.S. companies to resume their Libyan operations or transfer them to foreign subsidiaries. January 26. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that imports of all-terrain vehicles from Japan were being sold at less than fair value, with dumping margins ranging from 8.47 to 35.43 per- cent. However, on March 1, 1989, the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) deter- mined that such imports were not injuring the do- mestic industry, and the investigation was terminated. January 31. The Department of Commerce ruled that imports of steel light-walled rectangular tubing from Taiwan Province of China were being sold at less than fair value, with dumping margins ranging from 5.51 to 40.97 percent. The USITC found on March 15,1989 that a U.S. industry was being mate- rially injured by these imports, and definitive anti- dumping duties were imposed. February 2. The Treasury Department amended the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and Cuban Assets Control Regulations to terminate restrictions on the importation and exportation of publications and other tangible informational materials between the United States and Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. February 7. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of microdisks from Japan were being sold at less than fair value, with dumping margins ranging up to 51 percent. The USITC found on March 15,1989 that these imports were injuring a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 523 U.S. industry; hence, definitive antidumping du- ties were imposed. The Department of Commerce announced that countervailing duties would be im- posed on imports of malleable iron pipe fittings from Thailand because they were being subsidized at the rate of 2.94 percent. February 21. The Department of Agriculture is- sued new rules for agricultural imports requiring additional certification for selected items entering the United States (54 FR 7391). March 1. Final regulations implementing the countervailing duty provisions of the Trade and Tar- iff Act of 1984 were issued (53 FR 52306). The USITC ordered that imports of certain types of memory chips made by the Hyundai Co. of the Republic of Korea be banned. The order was part of a final ruling in 1987 that concluded that Hyundai chips violated U.S. patents. March 2. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of electrolytic manganese diox- ide from Greece and Japan were being dumped, with dumping margins of 77 percent and 36.72 per- cent, respectively. Definitive duties were imposed on March 4,1989, following positive determinations by the USITC that U.S. industries were being mate- rially injured or threatened with material injury by these imports. March 14. Imports of semiautomatic assault rifles were banned indefinitely, pending a review of whether these military-style weapons were being used for sporting purposes. March 20. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of cloth headwear from the Peo- ple's Republic of China were being dumped in the United States, with weighted-average dumping margins ranging from 5.3 percent to 32.06 percent. However, on April 27, 1989, the USITC, in a final determination, concluded that such imports did not threaten material injury to the U.S. headgear indus- try; hence, the investigation was terminated. March 22. The United States announced the initia- tion of the first binational panel reviews of two anti- dumping cases under Chapter 19 of the U.S.- Canada Free Trade Agreement, pertaining to im- ports from Canada of red raspberries and replace- ment parts for self-propelled paving equipment. (See also entry for December 1.) March 27. The Commerce Department deter- mined that imports of anti-friction bearings from eight countries were being dumped in the United States, with margins ranging from 0.5 percent to 212.45 percent. The countries were France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Ro- mania, Singapore, Thailand, and the United King- dom. The USITC made a final determination on May 2,1989 that the dumped imports of anti-friction bearings were materially injuring a U.S. industry; hence definitive duties were imposed. The USITC also determined that a U.S. industry was being materially injured by subsidized imports of anti- friction bearings from Singapore (weighted-average subsidy rate estimated at 2.34 percent) and Thai- land (21.54 percent). March 28. Final regulations implementing dump- ing provisions of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1987 were issued by the Department of Commerce (54 FR 12742). Most of the regulations would take effect on April 27, 1989, although some would not take effect until June 1, 1989. April 3. The Department of Commerce found that imports of pipes and tubes from Argentina were being dumped in the United States, with a margin of 56.26 percent. On May 5,1989, the USITC deter- mined that a domestic industry was being injured or threatened with material injury by reason of the dumped imports; hence, antidumping duties of 56.26 percent were assessed. April 10. Antidumping duties were terminated on imports of sodium nitrate from Chile. The Depart- ment of Commerce determined that imports of fab- ricated steel wheels from Brazil were being sub- sidized at rates ranging from 1.82 percent to 17.29 percent. However, on May 17,1989, the USITC determined that the domestic industry was not suf- fering material injury by reason of these imports, and the investigation was terminated. April 12. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that imports of industrial belts, and com- ponents and parts thereof, were being sold in the United States at less than fair value from several sources, including the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Taiwan Province of China, and the United Kingdom. It also determined that Israel was subsidizing these products. On May 23, 1989, the USITC determined that the domestic U.S. industry was being injured by imports of industrial belts from the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, and Singapore; hence, definitive antidumping du- ties were imposed on imports from these four coun- tries. On June 7, 1989, the USITC determined that imports of subsidized industrial belts from Israel were not causing material injury to the U.S. indus- try; hence, countervailing duties were not imposed. April 28. The U.S. administration announced that retaliatory action would be taken against Japan un- der Section 301 of the U.S. Trade and Competitive- ness Act of 1988, following a determination that Japan had violated a telecommunications pact with the United States by limiting access of U.S. products ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 UNITED STATES and services to the Japanese market for cellular ra- dio and third-party radio communications. On May 3, 1989, USTR released a list of potential Jap- anese products and services to be retaliated against (through increased duties or other import restric- tions). The list included motor vehicles, data pro- cessing machines, and telephones. The disputes were resolved through bilateral negotiations before retaliation took effect. May 1. The U.S. administration granted a one- year extension of trade benefits to the People's Re- public of China and Hungary based on their perfor- mance on human rights. May 11. The U.S. Customs Service no longer al- lowed bond to be given at time of entry but required appropriate certificates for coffee imported from In- ternational Coffee Organization member countries. Coffee from these countries would not be released from customs custody without certificates. May 19. The Food and Drug Administration tem- porarily banned imports of mushrooms from the People's Republic of China in 68-ounce cans follow- ing several outbreaks of food poisoning allegedly caused by the product. On October 23, 1989, all processed mushroom imports from the People's Re- public of China were banned indefinitely following new findings of alleged contamination. May 26. An unfair trade practices investigation against Canada's export policies on unprocessed sockeye salmon and herring was dropped in favor of formation of a panel to address the issue under the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement. May 31. The USITC found indication of injury to the U.S. industry from imports from Japan of com- mercial drafting machines, but not from imports of portable drafting machines. June 9. Imports of raw and worked ivory from all ivory-producing and intermediary nations were banned as part of a drive to protect endangered species. June 9. The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that third-party imports of foreign godds bearing the same trademark as their U.S.-made version but differing in physical content should be barred under Section 42 of the Lanham Act, even if produced by affiliates of U.S. manufacturers. June 20. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of generic cephalexin capsules from Canada were being sold at less than fair value, with an estimated weighted-average dumping mar- gin of 7.5 percent. However, on August 4,1989, the USITC determined that such imports did not mate- rially injure or threaten material injury to the U.S. industry, and the investigation was terminated. June 22. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that imports of 12-volt motorcycle bat- teries from Taiwan Province of China were being sold at less than fair value, with dumping margins ranging from 0.74 percent to 28.06 percent. How- ever, on August 8,1989, the USITC determined that no U.S. industry was being injured or threatened with material injury by such imports, and the inves- tigation was terminated. July 1. The United States decided to ban remain- ing uses of cancer-causing asbestos by 1997. The ban would take effect in three stages and prohibit U.S. production/importation of all but a few indus- trial products that cannot use substitutes or where there is low chance of fiber inhalation. July 1. The USTR's annual review of the GSP program, announced in April 1989, became effec- tive, and the following measures were taken: (1) Is- rael retained its duty-free benefits; (2) Thailand lost duty-free status on goods valued at US$63 million a year, including furniture, tiles, and artificial flowers; (3) the Central African Republic and Myanmar con- tinued to have their benefits suspended; (4) nine products from 16 countries with a trade value of US$10.8 million were added to the GSP program; (5) US$8.7 million in GSP-ineligible imports were reinstated in the program; (6) an estimated US$229 million worth of imports from developing countries were removed from duty-free treatment, of which products valued at US$216 million were removed because they exceeded competitive need limits; (7) the review of the eligibility status of Haiti, Li- beria, Syria, and Venezuela was extended by one year pending investigations for alleged workers' rights violations or expropriation without compen- sation; (8) Brazil's GSP eligibility with respect to cigar filler tobacco was restored; (9) on July 7,1989, cigarette leaf tobacco was removed from the list of products eligible for duty-free treatment under the GSP; and (10) on August 10, 1989, the USTR an- nounced that the eligibility of eight countries for continued GSP duty-free treatment was under re- view, five (Benin, Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Nepal, and Thailand) for alleged failure to honor internationally recognized workers' rights prac- tices, and three (Costa Rica, Peru, and Uruguay) for allegations that their governments expropriated property from U.S. citizens or companies without compensation. July 1. The Department of Commerce determined that imports of martial arts uniforms from Taiwan Province of China were being dumped, with a weighted-average margin of 8.5 percent. However, the USITC determined that material injury was not being caused to a U.S. industry, and the investiga- tion was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 525 July 11. The United States identified Canada's primary copper and lead sectors as industries that may receive trade-distorting government subsidies, and therefore invoked provisions in the U.S.- Canada Free Trade Agreement to monitor the al- leged subsidy practices. July 18. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of unprocessed fresh, chilled, and frozen pork from Canada were being sub- sidized by the Canadian Government. On Au- gust 28, 1989, the USITC determined that these subsidized imports were materially injuring or threatening material injury to a U.S. industry. Countervailing duties at a rate of Can$0.036 per pound of pork were assessed. July 25. The U.S. administration announced its steel import policy under which import restrictions on steel (in the form of negotiated voluntary re- straint arrangements (VRAs)), due to expire on Sep- tember 30, 1989, were extended by 30 months through March 31,1992, whereupon controls would cease and steel trade would be subject to normal trade rules. The VRAs with 19 nations and the EC would be renegotiated. The overall ceiling on im- ports could be increased during the next 2.5 years, from 18.4 percent of the domestic market to 19.1 percent in the first year, 20.1 percent in the second year, and 20.3 percent in the third year. The United States would enter into negotiations to reach an international consensus on steel trade to replace import restrictions. (See also entry for October 1.) July 27. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of new steel rails from Canada were being subsidized (with the net subsidy rates estimated at 0.24^113.56 percent), and were also being sold at less than fair value (with the weighted- average dumping margin estimated at 38.79 per- cent). On August 24, 1989, the USITC determined that the U.S. industry was being materially injured or threatened with material injury by the sub- sidized and dumped imports; hence, duties were assessed. August 17. The USITC issued a general exclusion order prohibiting the unlicensed import from France of certain chemiluminescent compositions, components, and products containing them. August 21. The Department of Agriculture banned, with immediate effect, imports of ostriches and other flightless birds for sanitary reasons. August 29. The USITC issued orders banning the import and sale in the United States of cellular tele- phones manufactured by Nokia Corp. of Finland and Tandy Corp. of the Republic of Korea, and related companies from Finland and the Republic of Korea, following an investigation of patent infringement. September 6. Import fees on tobacco were raised from US$0.35 a pound to US$0.40 a pound. September 8. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ruled that production machinery and related capital equipment imported from Japan into a foreign-trade subzone were subject to U.S. customs duties. September 12. Sugar import quotas were extended to September 30, 1990, and the quota levels were increased from 1,125,255 metric tons to 1,986,950 metric tons. (See also entry for November 30.) October 1. New voluntary export restraint (VER) arrangements on imports of steel became effective through March 1992. The allocated quotas for the various countries were as follows in terms of U.S. market share: (1) Brazil, 1.8 percent during the first 15-month phase and 2.1 percent in the second phase; (2) the EC, 7 percent share during the life of the agreement; (3) the Republic of Korea, 2.45 per- cent during the first 15-month phase and 2.62 per- cent during the second phase; (4) Mexico, 0.95 per- cent during the first 15-month phase and 1.10 per- cent during the second phase; and (5) Japan, 5 per- cent during the first 15 months, and 5.3 percent during the second phase. October 3. The United States and Mexico signed three agreements on trade, investment, and tourism. October 10. The USTR terminated two investiga- tions under Section 302 of the Trade Act of 1974 concerning processing subsidies granted by the EC for canned fruit, following a determination that the EC had taken satisfactory steps to comply with the 1985 agreement to limit such subsidies. October 11. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of small business telephone sys- tems and subassemblies from Japan were being dumped in the United States, with weighted- average dumping margins ranging between 129.73 percent and 178.93 percent for Japan, and those from Taiwan Province of China with weighted-average dumping margins of between 129.73 percent and 178.93 percent. On November 3, 1989, the USITC ruled that U.S. producers of small business telephone systems were being injured be- cause of the dumped imports, and antidumping duties were imposed. October 18. The U.S. Court of International Trade ruled that a preliminary injunction against auto- matic liquidation of entries pending judicial review of a positive injury determination in a dumping case would not be granted when the party seeking the injunction did not request an administrative review. October 19. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that imports of aluminum sulfate from Vene- zuela were being dumped and subsidized; the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 UNITED STATES weighted-average dumping margin was estimated at 259.17 percent, and the subsidy rate was esti- mated at 19.03-38.40 percent. On November 29, 1989, the USITC ruled that such imports were injur- ing the domestic industry. October 26. The most-favored-nation treatment was extended to Hungary. November 1. The U.S. administration added 18 categories of watches to the list of products eligible for duty-free treatment under the GSP, and denied GSP benefits to 40 categories of watches because of the potential for material injury to watch producers in the United States and the Virgin Islands. November 3. The Department of Commerce deter- mined that Japanese drafting machines and parts were being sold at less than fair value, with the weighted-average dumping margin estimated at 90.87 percent. On December 19, 1989, the USITC decided that imports of Japanese drafting machines were materially injuring or threatening material in- jury to a U.S. industry. November 30. The sugar import quota level was raised by 13.5 percent to ease a domestic shortage caused by a drop in U.S. production and low domes- tic stocks; the quota was increased from 1,986,950 metric tons to 2,259,865 metric tons. December 1. In the first decision under Chapter 19 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement, a bina- tional panel affirmed in part the results of a U.S. Department of Commerce review of an antidump- ing duty order covering red raspberries from Canada. It also asked for more information on one aspect of the Department of Commerce determination. December 19. The Department of Commerce de- termined that imports of small business telephone systems and subassemblies from the Republic of Korea were being dumped, with weighted-average dumping margins ranging from 13.40 to 15.88 per- cent. December 20. The U.S. administration announced the lifting of economic sanctions against Panama imposed in 1988. Concomitantly, GSP duty-free treatment for Panama was reinstated. The Department of Commerce determined that imports of residential door locks from Taiwan Province of China were being dumped, with weighted-average margins ranging from 1.27 per- cent to 17.75 percent. December 26. The United States reached agree- ment with Japan on an extension and a modification of the bilateral agreement restricting imports of tex- tiles and clothing from Japan. The agreement, to take effect on January 1, 1990, covered the period 1990-91, and would no longer apply an overall im- port quota on imports of Japanese yarns, fabrics, and "made up" items such as towels; however, the volume of clothing that Japan may ship to the United States was reduced by almost one fourth. December 27. The Department of Commerce de- termined that mechanical transfer presses (auto- matic metal-forming machine tools with multiple die situations) were being dumped, with weighted- average margins ranging from 7.49 percent to 15.16 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 13. An interim rule was issued by the Bureau of Export Administration of the Department of Commerce amending existing export restrictions to enable exports of 50,000 barrels a day of Alaska North Slope crude oil to Canada, as provided for in the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement. January 18. The United States and the Republic of Korea reached an agreement under which the latter agreed to open its markets to U.S. exports of wine and wine products. As a result, the USTR termi- nated an unfair trade practices investigation against the Republic of Korea. February 23. The Department of Commerce re- moved most unilateral national security export con- trols, expanded foreign policy controls on exports of some chemical and biological agents used in war- fare, and imposed new controls on exports of he- lium-3 for nuclear nonproliferation reasons. February 28. The Department of Commerce raised technology levels for items that could be exported to the People's Republic of China, reflecting agree- ments reached by COCOM. March 21. The Department of Commerce an- nounced implementation of agreements reached by COCOM to reduce controls and simplify the licens- ing process for some computers and equipment containing computers (54 FR 11517). May 22. Controls on strategically sensitive goods exported to Australia were liberalized following its membership in COCOM. June 5. Arms sales to the People's Republic of China were banned. June 6. The Department of Commerce liberalized export controls on magnetically enhanced sputter- ing equipment (used in the manufacture of semi- conductors) following a finding of foreign availability. June 30. The United States temporarily postponed an unfair trade practices (Section 301) investigation against the EC, following conditional agreement on a plan that could resolve a dispute over EC subsidies to European fruit canners. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 527 July 1. The Department of Commerce allowed exports, valued at up to US$30 billion a year, to be shipped without prior approval to 16 nations. In some cases, written notification was required for re- exports from countries other than members of COCOM, Finland, and Switzerland. July 11. The Department of Commerce published a final ruling easing controls on exports to members of COCOM (54 FR 29011). August 15. The Department of Commerce abol- ished controls on exports of laptop and certain other portable computers to the Soviet Bloc countries and the People's Republic of China. August 17. The Department of Commerce abol- ished export controls on sales of coaxial cables to the People's Republic of China; export licenses would be approved for such cables, provided that the spe- cific end-use was nonmilitary and the quantities to be shipped were normal for the intended purpose. August 24. The Department of Commerce amended export regulations to include butadiene polymers (related to nuclear weapons delivery sys- tems) on the list of controlled products. October 3. The Department of Commerce eased export controls on U.S.-origin parts and compo- nents in foreign-made products (54 FR 40640). For- eign manufacturers no longer needed prior U.S. approval to export such products to most countries, provided that the U.S.-made sophisticated, tech- nological content was not greater than 25 percent. October 6. The USTR ended a four-year investiga- tion of Brazil's allegedly restrictive trade policies toward U.S. exports of computers, electronics, hardware, and software in response to Brazil's efforts to expand copyright protection laws and lib- eralize market access. December 1. Controls on the export of high- technology products to Hungary and Poland were relaxed, subject to the condition that they were not resold to the Soviet Union. Capital December 31. The Federal Reserve Board's deci- sion (of December 23, 1988) allowing U.S. banks to accept foreign currency deposits became effective. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 32, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Uruguay follows a floating exchange rate pol- icy under which the exchange rate of the Uruguayan new peso is determined by market forces, although the Central Bank reserves the right, in principle, to intervene for the purpose of preventing disorderly conditions in the exchange market. Buying and sell- ing interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, on December 29, 1989 were NUr$804.0 and NUr$805.0, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. A tax of 2.0 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange in both the spot and forward exchange markets, if a transaction is settled in Uruguayan new pesos; the tax rate is 0.05 percent for sales of foreign exchange through interbank operations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Export proceeds are required to be negotiated in the banking system. (The term "negotiate" means that export proceeds may be converted into other currencies or used to pay off obligations or generate other assets.) There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, commercial banks, and banking and ex- change houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, banking houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must also be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in spec- ified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrange- ment with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are within a range of 10-40 per- cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agri- cultural inputs, imports by the public sector, im- ports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for certain priority industries, and imports under the temporary admission scheme. The Bank of the Republic also collects a consular charge of 4 percent on the f .o.b. value of imports, with certain exemptions. Most imports are also subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between zero and 15 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c .i .f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to IMADUNI and TMB. The combined effective tariff rate (including surcharges, tariffs, consular fees, and service charges) is limited to a maximum of 40 percent. Import surcharges, IMADUNI, and TMB are calcu- lated either on an officially assesed price (precio de referenda), on a minimum export price, or on the actual c . i .f. value, whichever is the highest. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invis- ibles or the export of foreign or domestic bank notes. 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 529 Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be negotiated in the banking system not later than 36 months after the date on which shipment is re- quested. Exporters are eligible for rebates in respect of indirect taxes paid during the production pro- cess; these rebates replaced the system of tax credit certificates with effect from January 1, 1983. From time to time, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considerations), certain exports are forbidden or subjected to special conditions. Some of the traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semiscoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and livestock on the hoof (except pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Fish exports are eligible for tax credit certificates amounting to between 2 percent and 8 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports, which can be used by the exporter to pay taxes or social security contributions, or can be sold to a third party. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments regis- tered under the Foreign Investment Law. The amor- tization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not below 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for industrial purposes is subject to the general policy governing the export, import, and trading of goods. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The rate of tax on sales of foreign ex- change in both the spot and forward markets was raised to 2.0 percent from 1.5 percent provided the transaction is effected in Uruguayan new pesos. Imports and Import Payments May 31. The criterion for the establishment of reference prices and minimum prices for imports was modified to limit the use of such prices to cases where prices of imported goods are considered to be below standard international prices. May 31. The maximum customs tariff rate was reduced to 40 percent from 45 percent. The customs tariffs on crude oil and its derivatives were reduced to 35 percent from 40 percent, and those on many basic items were reduced to 30 percent from 35 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu. Since Feb- ruary 5,1988, the external value of the vatu has been determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted basket of currencies. The Re- serve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign ex- change daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against major currencies (Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and New Zealand dollars) are quoted within margins of 0.25 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis, and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with the commercial banks for account of the Government or for com- mercial banks' operations. On December 29, 1989, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 110.47 and VT 110.98 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. As a rule, the commercial banks also do not provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammuni- tions, explosives, and dangerous drugs; and certain plants, foodstuffs, and animals, which are also re- stricted and subject to authorization. The importa- tion of chicken pieces, canned soft drinks, and T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif are restricted through import licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products—rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and to- bacco products —under a scheme designed to provide funds for the National Cooperative Federa- tion. Three importers pay a commission fee to the Cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad val- orem basis on the c . i .f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally lia- ble to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end-use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government that are funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re- exportation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches- de-mer, and crustaceans1 are subject to authoriza- tion by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and exports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal and timber. There are no surrender require- ments for export proceeds. 1 Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 531 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a unified, interbank exchange system under which the currency is al- lowed to float in response to market forces. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank participates in the interbank market at the prevailing market-determined exchange rate; its foreign exchange sales are conducted so as to main- tain both an orderly development in the interbank market and its net international reserves targets. The Central Bank quotes daily reference exchange rates for the bolivar in terms of the U.S. dollar, which are the modes of the buying and selling rates at the closing of the interbank market. The country's largest exporter, the state-owned Petroleum Corpo- ration (PDVSA) and its affiliates, is obliged to sell to the Central Bank its foreign exchange earnings, ex- cept for those needed to maintain working balances at a level pre-approved by the Central Bank Direc- torate. The Central Bank enters into agreement writh PDVSA on the amount to be bought at the average interbank selling rate minus 10 centavos. The Central Bank's reference exchange rate applies to official foreign exchange transactions, other than with PDVSA, that must be effected through the Central Bank, which mainly include disbursements and debt-service payments associated with public and publicly guaranteed external debt and imports of goods and services by the Central Government. The reference buying and selling rates on Decem- ber 29, 1989 were Bs 42.95 and Bs 43.05 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank sells, under a transi- tional arrangement, foreign exchange at Bs 4.30, Bs 7.50, and Bs 14.50 per US$1 for settlement of certain import and private debt-service payment obligations registered with the Central Bank, sub- ject to exchange rate guarantee, and outstanding before the date of the adoption of the unified ex- change system (on March 14, 1989). All other cur- rent and capital transactions are effected through the interbank foreign exchange market at the uni- fied, market-determined rate. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Exchange houses are allowed to deal only in narrowly defined cash (currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks) and are not authorized to hold or trade in foreign currency deposits. Resident com- mercial banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange deposits, sell such deposits to, and buy them from, other commercial banks, and purchase foreign cur- rency personal checks. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized dealers to nonresident corporations, ex- cept to correspondent banks, are prohibited. Tour- ism establishments are allowed to offer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of purchase and sale of foreign currency notes, coins, and trav- eler's checks. Cover against exchange risk is provided through forward foreign exchange contracts negotiated freely between participants in the interbank market without the intervention of the Central Bank. How- ever, as of the end of 1989, the forward foreign exchange market remained underdeveloped mainly as a result of limitations affecting the domestic fi- nancial markets. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Within the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Fi- nance, the Central Bank Directory regulates and supervises the foreign exchange activities of autho- rized dealers. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Rela- tions, depending on the product. The Superintendancy of Foreign Investment (SIEX) supervises foreign investments in Venezu- ela, contracts with nonresidents involving technol- ogy transfers and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Vene- zuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 533 Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are sub- ject to licensing control for environmental, health, or security reasons. At the end of 1989, import li- censes intended for the protection of domestic in- dustries are estimated to have covered about 15 per- cent of manufacturing.1 Protection-related licenses apply to all imports, except those from the member countries of the Andean Pact and Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) and from South Af- rica. Arms and ammunition may be imported only by the Government. Payments for imports can be effected freely through the interbank market. Nor- mally, imports are financed with 90-day letters of credit opened at a domestic commercial bank. In some instances, private sector imports are financed directly by the importer or with suppliers' credits. Customs tariffs on manufactured goods are mostly on an ad valorem basis, with a maximum rate of 80 percent on consumer goods and of 50 per- cent on intermediate and capital goods. Raw mate- rials for industries are generally subject to tariff rates of a maximum of 50 percent or lower.2 Customs tariffs on certain goods are higher than 80 percent, and some specific tariffs apply to agricultural prod- ucts and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the Tariff Code (corresponding to mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bi- tuminous substances). Exemptions from customs tariffs apply only to the products in the "basic bas- ket," consisting of 17 essential consumer goods3 and to articles imported entirely for assembly in Venezuela (C.K.D. regime).4 In addition to customs tariffs, all imports are sub- ject to customs service charges assessed on an ad valorem basis. These charges are 5 percent for arti- cles imported by air, land, and sea, and 2 percent for articles imported in postal packages. Storage According to the timetable of the Government's Trade Reform (Decree 239 of May 24, 1989), between March and Septem- ber 1990 the coverage of licenses required for protective purposes is to be reduced to a maximum of 5 percent of manufacturing production. 2The timetable of the Trade Reform calls for a reduction in March 1990 of the maximum tariff on manufacturing sector im- ports to 50 percent. 3Wheat flour, edible food products made from wheat, table rice, precooked maize flour, canned sardines, powdered milk, refined or brown sugar, mixed vegetable oil, pasteurized semi- fatty white cheese, pulses, infant formulas, dehydrated soups, essential medicines, type C toilet paper, fertilizers, and urban and intercity passenger transportation vehicles. 4The timetable of the Trade Reform calls for the elimination of customs tariff exemptions for articles under the C.K.D. regime by early 1991. charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market without limit, except that an annual ceiling applies to dividend remit- tances on direct foreign investment in nonpriority areas or those associated with debt-conversion schemes (see section on Capital, below). A fee of Bs 900 is charged to travelers leaving Venezuela for business purposes; the fee for tourists and children under the age of 12 is Bs 505. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. There are no other controls or restrictions on exports, except for products included in the "basic basket" and certain goods specified by the Government for rea- sons of public interest.5 With the exception of the export earnings of PDVSA and its affiliates, export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements and may be sold freely in the interbank market. Exports containing domestic value added of 30 percent or more are entitled to a fiscal credit in the form of a negotiable bond issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for the pay- ment of taxes. The rate of fiscal credit is 30 percent (based on the f .o .b. value of exports) for products with domestic value added of between 30 percent and 90 percent, and 35 percent for exports with domestic value added of between 91 percent and 100 percent. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have the mo- nopoly on the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The National Funds for Coffee and Cocoa, which are autonomous institutions attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, have the monopoly on the exportation of coffee and co- coa, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to sur- render requirements. Travelers may freely import 5The list of articles subject to export licenses includes certain agricultural products (milk, green peas, lentils, dry beans, rice, and maize), prepared and canned sardines, saccharose, sugar, uranium and thorium minerals, metallic minerals, and fertilizers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 VENEZUELA domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins is prohibited. Capital Direct foreign investments in the petroleum sec- tor are prohibited. Certain other sectors are re- served for mixed or national ownership (e.g., basic industries, domestic commercialization of nondur- able goods, mass media, and communications), but the Government may modify the restriction in ex- ceptional cases. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX; ex post registra- tion with the SIEX is required and approval is auto- matically granted if the new investment meets any one of seven general criteria.6 Reinvestment of profits does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. Dividend remittances in respect of investment in nonpriority areas are subject to an annual limit equal to 20 percent plus the prevailing LIBOR rate of the registered foreign investment amount, net of Venezuelan income tax on divi- dends. There are no limits on dividend remittances associated with priority foreign investments, which include (1) investments in agriculture, agro- industry, construction, tourism, data processing, electronics, and biotechnology; (2) joint ventures with the State; and (3) investments in companies exporting more than 50 percent of their production. Repatriation of capital is not restricted, provided that all domestic taxes have been paid and the corre- sponding investments have been duly registered.7 An auction-based scheme governs the conversion of public external debt into domestic equity. The Central Bank conducts monthly public auctions of a preannounced amount (expressed in terms of U.S. dollars) of debt-conversion rights. This amount is based on an annual ceiling set by an Interministerial Debt Conversion Commission and quarterly dis- tributions of such a ceiling made by the Central Bank in view of monetary policy targets. National or foreign investors seeking to participate in this 6Foreign direct investments must either: (1) incorporate na- tional value added equal to at least 40 percent; (2) export prod- ucts with at least 30 percent national value added; (3) generate significant levels of employment; (4) be established in geo- graphic zones considered to be relatively less developed econom- ically; (5) bring technology to the country; (6) pledge to reinvest in the country at least 50 percent of profits; or (7) substantially contribute to import substitution. 7A substantial liberalization of the foreign direct investment regime was introduced on January 26, 1990 (Decree 727). The main changes concerned the reduction of the number of sectors reserved for mixed or national ownership, the removal of the limits on dividend remittances, and permission for foreign inves- tors to participate in the Caracas Stock Exchange. scheme must first submit to the SIEX a request for debt-equity conversion, accompanied by appropri- ate documentation, including a specific investment plan involving eligible investments.8 The SIEX, upon examination of the documentation, recom- mends approval of the request to the Inter- ministerial Commission. Approved investments receive a "Constancia de Calificacion," which au- thorizes the investor to participate for one year in the auctions up to the amount of conversion re- quested. (The period may be extended to two years.) In order to present bids at the auction, an autho- rized investor must deposit with a financial institu- tion or insurance company a guarantee in bolivares in favor of the Central Bank for an amount equiv- alent to 5 percent of the face value of the external public debt intended to be tendered at each auction. This guarantee is released to the investor only on completion of the conversion or rejection of the bid. Bids are presented in sealed envelopes and must include, inter alia, the face value of the external public debt to be converted, the discount relative to face value at which the investor is willing to convert such debt, and an indication of whether the conver- sion would be partial or total. Winning bids receive a "Constancia de Conversion/' that is, a nontransfer- able, nonnegotiable right, valid for 60 days, to effect the conversion of the tendered debt at the bid dis- count and at the reference exchange rate of the Central Bank prevailing at the time of the conversion. A "total" conversion is allowed when a winning bidder submits to the Central Bank, in one opera- tion, the entire amount of external public debt au- thorized for conversion under the Constancia de Calificacion. Under the modality of "partial" con- versions, a winning bidder has the right to convert the external public debt in the Constancia de Cal- ificacion in a series of operations, according to a timetable presented with the bid, without having to participate in fu ture auctions. Partial conversions are allowed only when the external public debt to be converted has a face value of more than US$2 mil- lion. Under the system of partial conversions, the investor must tender in the auction at least 20 per- cent of the face value of the external debt, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 percent of the amount of conversion rights being auctioned. The 8Eligible investments are those directed at either export indus- tries, import-substituting industries, preventing closure of Vene- zuelan enterprises, or one of the following 12 priority sectors: agriculture, agro-industry, infrastructural construction, con- struction of low-income housing, tourism, capital goods produc- tion, chemical products, electronics and data processing, bio- technology, aluminum, metal working, and mining. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 535 discount applicable to partial conversions is the weighted-average discount obtained in the auction immediately preceding the date of each partial con- version. Both total and partial conversions are effected at the reference exchange rate of the Cen- tral Bank prevailing at the time of the conversion. The Central Bank may purchase the external debt associated with winning bids either with domestic currency or with public internal debt securities. The proceeds from the conversion are transferred to a trust account constituted by the investor with a fiduciary agent (which could be a commercial bank, an insurance company, or the Central Bank itself). The fiduciary agent has the responsibility of ensur- ing the proper use of the trust account and will release the funds to the recipient resident enter- prise according to the timetable of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of private external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Foreign direct investments in Venezuela associ- ated with conversions of public or private external debt are subject to the same regulations that apply to ordinary direct investments, with important ex- ceptions in respect of dividend remittances and cap- ital repatriation. Dividend remittances on invest- ments associated with debt conversions are subject to an annual limit of 10 percent of the registered investment during the first three years after regis- tration. Capital repatriation is not allowed for five years, and an annual maximum of 12.5 percent of the registered investment may be repatriated dur- ing the following eight years. Following the pre- scribed periods, the dividend remittances and capi- tal repatriation of direct investments associated with debt conversions are subject to the same reg- ulations as those that apply to ordinary direct investments. Capital inflows and principal repayments associ- ated with external debt contracted or guaranteed by the Venezuelan Republic require parliamentary ap- proval and must be channeled through the Central Bank. Prior authorization from the SIEX is required for private sector external borrowing that carries a maturity of more than two years. All foreign credit transactions of the private sector must be registered with the SIEX. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized travelers, ex- change houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are reserved for the Central Bank. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and of gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In addition, imports may require licenses from the Central Bank and, in some cases, from the Ministry of Development. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that such exports are re-imported following transforma- tion processes not available in the country and that the re-imported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The system of multiple exchange rates was replaced by a unified, interbank market system under which the exchange rate would be allowed to be determined by market forces. Virtually all forms of exchange control were eliminated. On a transi- tional basis, the exchange rates of Bs 4.30, Bs 7.50, and Bs 14.50 per US$1 would be applied to the settlement of certain import and private debt- service obligations contracted before the new ex- change system took effect subject to exchange rate guarantee. June 19. Regulations were issued concerning the sale by the Central Bank of foreign exchange at Bs 4.30, Bs 7.50, and Bs 14.50 per US$1 for regis- tered private external debt-service payments. Imports and Import Payments May 24. The first stage of the Government's new Trade Reform for the manufacturing sector was ini- tiated. Licenses and prohibitions previously im- posed for protective purposes were eliminated on 1,899 items, which represented 76.9 percent of all manufacturing sector imports that were subject to such licenses. Specific tariffs on manufactured goods were replaced with ad valorem tariffs. Ex- emptions from customs tariffs for manufactured goods were eliminated, except for 17 essential con- sumer goods in the "basic basket" and for entirely dismantled articles intended for assembly in Vene- zuela (articles falling under the C.K.D. regime). The maximum ad valorem customs tariff rate was set at 80 percent for consumer goods and at 50 percent for raw materials and intermediate and capital goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 VENEZUELA Exports and Export Proceeds May 24. Licensing requirements and prohibitions on exports of manufactured goods, except for the products included in the "basic basket" and goods identified by the Government for reasons of public interest, were abolished. August 17. The fiscal credit for exports was modi- fied to apply only to those containing domestic value added of 30 percent or more. The fiscal credit, consisting of a negotiable bond that may be used for tax payments, was set at 30 percent (of f .o.b. value) for exports with domestic value added of between 30 and 90 percent, and at 35 percent for exports with domestic value added of between 91 and 100 percent. Capital March 15. A new framework for debt-equity con- versions was established. September 6. Regulations governing an auction- based system for the conversion of public external debt into equity were issued. Gold September 29. New regulations pertaining to ex- ports of gold and its alloys were issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. The ex- change rate is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar. Adjustments to the exchange rate, aimed at main- taining the spread with the parallel market ex- change rate within a given range, are made at irreg- ular intervals in light of developments in the domestic economy and movements in international prices. In March 1989, the previous system of multiple exchange rates applied to various transactions was abolished. All previous exchange rates were unified at the level of the then-prevailing parallel market exchange rate of D 4,500 per US$1. On Decem- ber 29, 1989, the official exchange rate was D 4,300 per US$1. Most of Viet Nam's trade and financial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA are effected in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC).1 On December 29, 1989, the transferable ruble rate (TR) was D 1,190 = TR1 for machinery and equipment and D 1,500 = TR1 for most other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank of Viet Nam. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried o>ut by specialized import-export corporations and some cooperatives or state enterprises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations; approval is given for imports in excess of the plan on the merit of each application. Most foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the foreign exchange transactions related to foreign technical assistance are monitored by the Aid Reception Commission, which is an agency directly attached to the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Foreign invest- ment regulations are coordinated by the State Com- mittee for Cooperation and Investment (SCCI). Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1The member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) are settled under the transferable ruble system ad- ministered by the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). Transactions with Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea are settled through individual clearing accounts using clearing (or bilat- eral) rubles. As a member of the CMEA, Viet Nam is entitled to use credits in transferable rubles from the IBEC to facilitate the clearing of transactions with the CMEA member countries. Viet Nam is also entitled to use credits from the IBEC to finance its external trade deficit with the CMEA countries, pending the conclusion of medium- or long-term financing arrangements with the trade parties. Viet Nam maintains a special current account in convert- ible foreign exchange with the IBEC for a petroleum joint venture between Viet Nam and the U.S.S.R. Nontrade transactions with countries with which Viet Nam has bilateral payments agreements2 take place at exchange rates specified in those agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import plan and an export plan are drawn up annually on the basis of the overall annual plan and quotas agreed upon under bilateral trade arrange- ments. Import and export activities are regulated by Decision No. 177, which was issued by the Council of Ministers on June 15,1985 and amended by Deci- sion No. 161 of the Council of Ministers of Octo- ber 1, 1988, and by Decree No. 65/HDBT of the 2At the end of 1989, Viet Nam maintained bilateral payments agreements with three member countries of the Fund —the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mali, and the Syrian Arab Re- public (only the agreement with the Lao People's Democratic Republic was operative), and with two countries that are not members of the Fund—Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 VIET NAM Council of Ministers of June 10,1989. Trade transac- tions are carried out by 140 import-export com- panies, which produce exportable goods them- selves or purchase them from producers. About 240 producers have temporary or permanent trading rights that allow them to export and import directly. In addition, about 100 foreign-owned or joint ven- ture companies trade directly with foreign partners. State-owned companies with annual export turn- over of more than US$5 million may obtain perma- nent foreign direct trading rights, while those with export turnover in the range of US$2-5 million may obtain temporary (annual) foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or investment trade with an export-import corporation. All payments for ex- ternal trade transactions are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade; export receipts are also normally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Local export companies are permitted to export all available commodities, including the 25 items previously under the monopoly of the central export-import companies. Local corporations may import only commodities appearing on a list ap- proved by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Rela- tions, which is amended periodically. The procure- ment prices of exportable commodities and the domestic prices of imported goods are determined by local companies within ranges that are set by the State Pricing Commission for each group of com- modities. In order to make better use of available marketing expertise and facilities, local trading com- panies in the provinces are permitted to enter into joint venture arrangements with trading companies located in various municipalities. Following the fulfillment of the export plan against the delivery of input by the Government, export-producing enterprises are entitled either to retain 10-30 percent of export earnings in deposits in foreign currencies or to use foreign exchange at their discretion; the remainder must be surrendered to the Government. In the case of exports not cov- ered by the plan, the relevant proportion that can be retained by the enterprises is 70-90 percent. Local trading companies are also required to sur- render 10-30 percent of their export earnings (in convertible currencies) that exceed the quota deliv- ered to the State. However, many exemptions cur- rently apply. For localities that borrow in foreign currency, the surrender requirement is applied to their export earnings, net of their debt-servicing payments, for a period of three to five years; com- panies operating in the highland area are exempted from surrendering foreign exchange for a period of five years after they start producing exportable goods. Centrally managed companies operating in the tourist sectors are exempted from the surrender requirement, and central companies exporting coal, rubber, and marine products are allowed to retain 80-100 percent of their export earnings to purchase necessary inputs from the convertible area. De- posits arising from foreign currency receipts are held in special domestic currency accounts that can be used for the purchase of foreign currency for imports. The right to use these convertible dong deposits can be relinquished to other enterprises in exchange for the supply of inputs. State enterprises have two export plans. Primary export plans are formulated by the Government against deliveries of key inputs by the Government; secondary plans are set by the producing units which do not obtain a sufficient supply of inputs (e.g., fuel) by the Government, thus leaving the task of procuring the needed inputs to the enterprises. New taxes on international trade became effective in April 1989. Import duties ranging from 3 percent to 100 percent were introduced. The lowest rates are levied on imports of raw materials and capital equipment, and the highest rates are levied on im- ports of consumer goods classified as luxuries (pre- viously, import duties were levied only on noncom- mercial imports, and this duty was retained). Export taxes for most products range up to 50 per- cent. For imports from the nonconvertible currency area, foreign exchange is allocated annually to im- porters on the basis of production plans; in princi- ple, such foreign exchange cannot be carried over from one year to the next. For imports from the convertible area, although a similar foreign ex- change allocation system exists in principle, it is not in use, as decisions to allocate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime Minister's Cabinet on a case-by- case basis, on recommendations from the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and spec- ified Vice-Premiers. For transactions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived from their retained export earnings. Food grains, coffee, peanuts, rubber, coconut meat and oil, logs and lumber, and metals and metal wastes are subject to export quotas; transportation vehicles, cement, electronic goods and compo- nents, textiles, bicycles, electric fans, beer, soft drinks, cigarettes, cosmetics, and ready-made clothes are subject to import quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 539 Payments for Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs individual authorization from the Prime Minister's Cabinet and is limited to official businesses for which all reasonable foreign exchange expenses are covered.3 Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Ministry of Finance. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese cur- rency need the special permission of the State Bank. As from October 1988, Vietnamese citizens having foreign currency have been allowed to sell it to banks at commercial exchange rates, to make pur- chases at shops selling goods for foreign exchange, or to deposit it into bank accounts bearing interest on foreign currency at interest rates set by the bank. Foreign currency deposited with a bank may be withdrawn for payment or transfer to other units or individuals. Legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops, and tourists are re- quired to make certain payments in convertible for- eign currency. Capital A new law on foreign investment was approved by the National Assembly on December 29, 1987, providing for three forms of foreign investment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and (3) categories wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is to be no less than 30 percent, and there is no upper limit. Other provisions under the Investment Code include: (1) the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital, not to exceed 20 years, but if necessary, to be extended for a longer period; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent, to be levied on remittance of profits abroad; (3) income taxes, to be paid at the reduced rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit-making year; and (4) possible exemptions from or reductions of import and export duties in exceptional cases. The Code also provides that foreign investors need to deal only with one organization within the Government specifically created for that purpose. 3As of February 1988, private travel has been permitted for specified reasons, including study, health, and visiting relatives abroad. In the latter case, the traveler must have a round-trip ticket and adequate funds provided by transfers from the rela- tives abroad. Beginning October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for production and business purposes are permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or get a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the bor- rower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds depos- ited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement March 5. The exchange rates for the transferable ruble were devalued to D 1,465 per ruble from D 700 per ruble for machinery and equipment, and to D 2,000 per ruble from D 1,100 per ruble for most other trade transactions. March 13. The two official exchange rates (the rate for trade transactions within the foreign trade plan of D 900 per US$1 and the rate for most invisible transactions and trade transactions outside the for- eign trade plan of D 3,500 per US$1) were unified and depreciated to D 4,500 per US$1. June 5. The exchange rate for transactions with the convertible currency area was appreciated to D 4,200 per US$1 from D 4,500 per US$1. June 22. The exchange rate for transactions with the convertible currency area was appreciated to D 3,900 per US$1 from D 4,200 per US$1. July 6. The exchange rates for the transferable ruble were revalued to D 1,190 from D 1,465 for machinery and equipment, and to D 1,500 from D 2,000 for most other transactions. December 18. The exchange rate for transactions with the convertible currency area was depreciated to D 4,300 per US$1 from D 3,900 per US$1. Imports and Exports February 9. A circular defining the procedures for implementation of Decree No. 305/CT (issued on November 30, 1988) on trade policy and describing the procedures for the granting of import and ex- port licenses and quotas was issued by the Ministry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 VIET NAM of Foreign Economic Relations and the General De- partment of Customs. March 1. The number of export products subject to quota was reduced to 7 (food grains, coffee, pea- nuts, rubber, coconut meat and oil, logs and lumber, metals and metal wastes), and the number of im- port products subject to quota was reduced to 11 (transportation vehicles, cement, electronic goods and components, textiles, bicycles, electric fans, beer, soft drinks, cigarettes, cosmetics, and ready- made clothes). April 1. The number of products subject to export duties was reduced to 12 from 30, together with a reduction in most of the duty rates; the number of commercially imported products subject to customs tariffs was reclasslfied into 80 categories, and the tariff rates ranged 3-100 percent. June 10. The Council of Ministers issued a decree which defined the regulations of export and import trading, in particular the rights and obligations of producers and of trading companies. Exporters and importers were allowed to select any export-import company for their business activities; they were pre- viously assigned to a specific company under the annual planning system. In addition, certain pro- ducers were allowed to obtain direct foreign trading rights subject to certain criteria and to engage in direct business with foreign companies. November 4. The structure of customs tariffs was revised, whereby in general the rate levels were raised, and the coverage was broadened. Capital March 10. The State Committee for Cooperation and Investment (SCCI) was established (and came into operation on July 1). The SCCI has the responsi- bility of coordinating inter-ministerial activities on foreign investment and facilitates administrative procedures applying to foreign investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. The exchange rate of the tala is deter- mined on the basis of a fixed relationship between the tala and a weighted basket of currencies. The Central Bank has the authority to make discretion- ary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On De- cember 29,1989, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$1 = US$0.4410 and WS$1 = US$0.4325, respectively. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign ex- change. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank of Samoa, which delegates part of its powers to autho- rized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresi- dents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Central Bank of Samoa; the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only autho- rized banks —are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other pay- ments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresidents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Imports of buses re- quire a license from the Ministry of Transportation. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of items that require prior approval from the Central Bank, namely, used cars, buses and bus chassis, and dump trucks. All imports with a c.i.f. value of more than WS$15,000 are required to be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c.i.f. value of be- tween WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draft. And imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments for such imports are effected within 30 days of their arrival in West- ern Samoa. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The central bank approval pro- cess that governs the remittance of invisible pay- ments is concerned only with the bona fide nature of the transaction. Residents and expatriates travel- ing overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allowances. In the case of travel for business purposes, the daily allowance is from WS$200 to WS$300 a person, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank of Samoa grants supplementary allocations against evidence of legit- imate need (such as medical expenses). As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Mar- keting Division on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic short- ages. Exports of cocoa are controlled by the Cocoa 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 WESTERN SAMOA Board. An export levy of 7 percent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa.1 Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Export levies are applied at the following rates: copra, 5 percent, charged when the price exceeds WS$100 a ton; copra meal, 3 percent; fruits and vegetables, 3 percent; veneer logs and sawn logs, 20 percent; rough timber, 5 percent to 15 percent; and coconut oil, WS$25 a metric ton. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency they brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domes- tic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank of Samoa. aThe export levy on cocoa is charged if the price exceeds WS$800 a ton. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by all residents (in- cluding banks) requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enterprises are granted certain relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the re- patriation of capital and profit remittances on for- eign capital must be approved by the Central Bank of Samoa; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on im- ports or exports of gold. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The requirement of prior approval by the Central Bank for imports of new motor vehicles and timber was eliminated. October 1. The minimum c.i.f. value of imports for which financing by a letter of credit is required was raised to WS$15,000 from WS$10,000. The require- ment of prior approval by the Central Bank for im- ports of capital equipment was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 9.76 = US$1. On De- cember 31,1989, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 9.75 and YRls 9.77, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for 12 other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank is the sole buyer and seller of foreign exchange in the domestic banking system. It purchases foreign exchange mainly from money changers (mainly in Jeddah) who acquire foreign exchange from Y. A.R. workers in Saudi Arabia, and credits the accounts of the money changers with commercial banks in the Yemen Arab Republic. Commercial banks are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tour- ists) but must sell any foreign exchange acquired to the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides for- eign exchange to all holders of import licenses at the official exchange rate. An exchange rate of YRls 10 = US$1 is used for the settlement of letters of credit. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There is an informal market for foreign exchange involving small money changers who, although le- gally not permitted to operate in foreign exchange transactions, transact in small amounts and within reasonable margins. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is established by the Central Bank in parallel with a commodity budget prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply in consultation with the Central Bank. All imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply. However, since 1988, all enterprises have been permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of US$1,000 for each shipment without a license to meet emergency requirements. The value of im- 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. ports under this facility is not allowed to exceed US$5,000 a month for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account or for the accounts of their customers. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank, and is approved by the Eco- nomic Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the per- mission of certain government agencies, and im- ports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license can ob- tain the necessary foreign exchange from the Cen- tral Bank. Y.A.R. nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to estab- lish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their business activities up to a limit of US$40,000 only with the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent, a statistical tax of 2 percent, and a tax of 1 percent for recon- struction related to earthquake damage. Since 1985, imports transported over land routes without a li- cense have been subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to travelers and to those seeking medical treatment abroad, with the amount dependent on their destination and up to a maximum of US$4,000. Larger amounts are granted only by special permission from the Central Bank. There are no restrictions on outward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate employees. The export of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks. Non- petroleum exporters may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts to finance imports either of their own inputs, or of any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Ex- porters do not have to surrender their foreign ex- change proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Exporters of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. The import of Yemen bank notes is prohibited. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Industry. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, in- vestors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Ministry of Industry upon determination that the project is economically viable and socially accept- able; a reasonable timetable for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved pro- jects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. The registra- tion of direct foreign investments and the authen- tication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Ministry of Industry in coop- eration with the Central Bank. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank, which also maintains accounts of outstand- ing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an im- port, export, or exchange license. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The margin requirements against import letters of credit were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and au- thorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. On December 31, 1989, the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed cur- rencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the mar- ket rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Con- trol of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has dele- gated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in traveler's checks and bank notes, are classi- fied into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordinary money changers, whose princi- pal business is to sell and purchase foreign ex- change for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers and are required to sur- render the receipts in foreign exchange to the Na- tional Bank not later than the following business day. The authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, but secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (includ- ing those of precious metals) require the prior ap- proval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in convert- ible currencies and surrendered to the authorized dealer; proceeds from exports or re-exports to spec- ified neighboring countries may be surrendered in the currencies of these countries. Payments for im- ports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be cred- ited with proceeds from convertible foreign cur- rency transferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign bank notes (unless they have been declared to customs on entry), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Ac- counts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Ex- change Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Yemeni nationals working abroad and foreign ex- patriate workers employed in People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may establish nonresident 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into for- eign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of cars other than those needed for development pro- jects are also prohibited. All imports require indi- vidual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab are exempt from the licensing requirements. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or docu- mentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Ex- change Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of all consumer goods, with the exception of medical supplies and hospital equipment, which are handled by the National Company for Drugs. It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government re- quirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Re- public of Yemen) and are exempt from customs du- ties, except that the proceeds of exports and re- exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender requirement (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to under- take to repatriate in convertible currencies commis- sions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Director of Exchange Control. The "Inducement to Invest Law" divides foreign invest- ments into two categories: (1) projects that realize self-sufficiency in their requirements for foreign currency, which may remit net annual profits due on invested capital within the limit of the credit of their exports; and (2) projects of primary impor- tance for the national economy, which may remit the whole of the annual net profits due on capital invested. Projects that were set up before 1971 may remit all of their net profit. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of YD 100 a person a trip to all destina- tions other than the Yemen Arab Republic (the al- lowance for the Yemen Arab Republic is YRls 2,000); for children aged between 2 and 10 years, the basic exchange allowance is one half of these amounts. Allowances for medical treatment abroad are nor- mally granted in accordance with the amount esti- mated by the Ministry of Health. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of each application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 percent and 100 percent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 percent of their total earn- ings. Nonnationals doing business in the country can remit abroad up to the equivalent of YD 50 a month for family maintenance. All insurance is na- tionalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bank notes and up to the equiv- alent of YD 125 in traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresi- dents may take out any foreign exchange they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to individual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for ex- ports to neighboring countries specified by the For- eign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Proceeds of exports or re- exports to neighboring countries may be surren- dered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to nonresidents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) and surren- dered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 percent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 547 US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their entire sav- ings to their country of permanent residence. For- eign investments that have been approved under the Inducement to Invest Law (enacted in 1981) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. Five years after invest- ment, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of assignment, actual liquidation, or book value, whichever is least) is transferable at the rate of 25 percent a year; if, however, the owner of the Yemeni, Arab, or foreign capital encounters opera- tional difficulties, his capital may, upon approval, be retransferred to its place of origin one year after entry. This provision also applies to the reinvested part of such capital. Interest due on any loans ob- tained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Projects authorized under this law are exempt from income tax for up to five years from the com- mencement of production and may carry losses forward. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and orna- ments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and im- ports of gold by registered goldsmiths require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. De- parting female residents may take out gold orna- ments not exceeding 20 tolas1, subject to registra- tion in their passports. Arriving female nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas duty free and up to an additional 75 tolas after paying import duty at a rate of 30 percent. Arriving male nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 90 tolas, of which 10 tolas are duty free. Changes During 1989 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 1One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The exchange rate of the dinar has been fixed at Din 70,000 per deutsche mark since December 18, 1989,l and quoted exchange rates for all other con- vertible currencies2 are determined daily on the basis of the exchange rates of the currencies con- cerned against the deutsche mark on the interna- tional market. All transactions, other than those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral pay- ments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, below), take place in an interbank foreign exchange market conducted daily under the aus- pices of the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). Transactions are settled at the official exchange rate, which is also the rate at which banks deal with customers after allowing for a prescribed margin of 1.0 percent. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1989 was Din 118,160 per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar for transactions on bilateral accounts was Din 116,106 per US$1. Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates the decision on the foreign exchange policy of the country for each year; the projections of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are com- ponent parts of this decision. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Rela- tions makes decisions governing certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export li- censes and instructions when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with pay- ments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autono- mous provinces administer the exchange controls. 1 Effective January 1, 1990, the dinar was replaced by the new dinar at the rate of Din 10,000 (old) - Din 1 (new). 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). The National Bank of Yugoslavia prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: (1) fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees); and (2) banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange ac- counts abroad nor engage in foreign credit opera- tions, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. All enterprises that are registered with the com- mercial courts and authorized to produce and sell specific goods and services in Yugoslavia are per- mitted to import and export the same goods and services. Enterprises may import directly all raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital equip- ment necessary for their production. Individual res- idents may not engage in foreign trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the pro- cedures, set forth in these agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring denomination of transactions in clearing U.S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies with fully authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign mis- 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 549 sions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign curren- cies with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible curren- cies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.3 Balances held in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies provided that the bank holding the account is prepared to make the neces- sary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilat- eral currencies may be opened only for certain for- eign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the country to which the bilateral account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may in certain cases and under specified conditions open nonresident accounts in dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibility of using dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferability of the funds depend on the origin of the dinar deposits. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, transferable abroad under certain conditions. Bal- ances that are not transferable may be spent in Yugoslavia for noncommercial payments by the ac- count holder or by members of his immediate fam- ily. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions, disability allowances, compensations to persons decorated with the Order of the National Hero, or from ali- mony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Apart frorm this, foreign physical persons may keep convertible currencies on their foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits with authorized banks. These balances may 3 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following curren- cies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. be kept as sight or time deposits. Authorized banks pay interest on the balances on foreign exchange accounts and foreign exchange deposits of foreign physical persons either in foreign currencies or, at their request, in foreign currencies and dinars, or in dinars. Resident nationals may purchase from the official banking system foreign exchange with dinars with- out restriction. They may also maintain foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits in convertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies transferred from abroad, with interest paid in dinars, or kept in dinars or foreign exchange for foreign exchange accounts of Yugoslavs tem- porarily working abroad. Foreign exchange ac- counts may be retained indefinitely, with no limits on withdrawals in cash. Other payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate family can be made freely; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange ac- counts in Yugoslavia, subject to the same limitations. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods may be effected by productive enterprises, either for their own requirements or for the requirements of their subcontractors, and by enterprises participating in foreign trade. More than 1,200 enterprises are registered as participants in foreign trade. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified into three catego- ries: LB—free; K —subject to quotas; and D— subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly medicine, medical and hospital equipment, essential mate- rials for net exporting enterprises, spare parts for existing equipment not produced in Yugoslavia, crude oil, and certain pharmaceutical products. En- titlement to foreign exchange for the importation of goods in this category is automatic. Imports subject to quotas (K list) are some basic raw materials, part of ferrous and nonferrous met- als, textiles, essential agricultural products, and equipment produced in Yugoslavia but that should be protected. The quotas are globally set for each product (in value and volume terms) by the Federal Executive Council, and are allocated to individual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 YUGOSLAVIA enterprises by the Yugoslav Chamber of the Econ- omy. If enterprises are unable to agree among them- selves on the allocation, or if the allocation does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations is autho- rized to make the distribution of imports among the enterprises concerned. Imports subject to licensing by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Economic Relations (D list) include products whose importation is controlled by inter- national agreements for noneconomic reasons (e.g., arms, illegal drugs and narcotics, and historical and artistic work). The importation of these products is allowed on an individual basis and for specific pur- poses. The importation of certain goods from some countries, particularly from developing countries, is subject to an additional requirement of regional accordance issued by the Federal Secretariat for For- eign Economic Relations. Imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the rele- vant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them in accordance with rules govern- ing citizens' right to import and for purchases of domestically produced goods with dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Yugoslav nationals who have worked abroad con- tinuously for at least two years may import capital equipment necessary for performance of a legally permitted professional activity, provided that such equipment is imported within three years of the date of return, and that the value of each instrument is below Din 80 million. They may also freely import spare parts for maintenance of capital equipment. In addition, self-employed Yugoslav nationals may import intermediate goods necessary for perfor- mance of a legally permitted professional activity, up to the value of Din 21 million a year; this amount may be increased if the Yugoslav national in ques- tion employs other people. Yugoslav nationals may import motor vehicles through consignments if pay- ment is made from a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank; they may also import motor vehicles directly from abroad if they have spent at least two years abroad, provided that they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. In addition, they may import motor vehicles inherited abroad. Imports of motor vehicles are also permissible for military invalids or foreign nationals asking for per- manent residence in Yugoslavia. A1 percent tax for customs evidence and a 10 per- cent tax equalization charge are payable on all com- modities not exempt from customs duty. Many agri- cultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Returning resident travelers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for pay- ment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to export- ers. Payments for other invisibles in relation to pro- duction needs may be made on the same basis as conditionally free (LBO) import payments. Pur- chases of services abroad, as well as spare parts and fuel, by Yugoslav enterprises involved in interna- tional freight and passenger transportation are liberal. There is no special exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are al- lowed to use freely balances from their foreign ex- change accounts and foreign exchange savings de- posits for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, nonresident persons may effect the following payments abroad: pay- ments for improving labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, and payments to recipients of an Order of the National Hero; alimony payments, payments for court-ordered compensations or in- demnities, the profits of foreign contractors per- forming capital construction work in Yugoslavia; and 10 percent of the proceeds from cultural, enter- tainment, sport, and other performances given by foreign groups or individuals. In addition, copyright royalties are transferable abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity. Payments in re- spect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fully transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, then such pay- ment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Transfers to convertible currency countries of funds realized by nonresi- dents from selling property inherited in Yugoslavia can be effected on the basis of the approval of the Federal Secretariat for Finance under conditions of reciprocity in inheritances and in transfers. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to residents for payment of specified medical treat- ment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad, and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate au- thorities in the republics and autonomous ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 551 provinces. The export of domestic bank notes is restricted to Din 12 million a person per trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation with foreign countries must be sold to commercial banks immediately upon repatriation at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of sale. In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domes- tic market and certain other materials such as gun- powder, weapons, and narcotic drugs require ex- port licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from ex- ports must be repatriated. The normal period of repatriation is 60 days from the date of exportation. All foreign exchange earnings must be sold to fully authorized banks immediately upon repatriation. Proceeds from exports on credit must be repatriated within the period of time stipulated under the credit agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 60 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engi- neering services is subject to approval ("accor- dance") by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia within 60 days from work completion and must be sold to authorized banks. With specified exceptions, proceeds from services are subject to the same sur- render requirements and procedures as are pro- ceeds from exports of goods. Residents who, while employed abroad, depos- ited their savings in foreign savings banks and ob- tained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific arrangements between Yugoslavia and for- eign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Resi- dents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be cred- ited with the full amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate family. The import of domestic bank notes is restricted to Din 12 million a person per trip. Capital The Organizations of Associated Labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accor- dance with criteria established by the Law on For- eign Credit Relations of 1985 and the regulations issued under this law. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic or- ganizations but only through joint ventures. There is no limit on the share of foreign investment in the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted in proportion to the share of the foreign partner's contributions to the income generated on the basis of the resources invested and up to the amount of foreign currency earned by the joint venture from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provi- sions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract if the foreign investor so desires, or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legisla- tion could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatri- ated within 60 days. Residents are obliged to re- patriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by federal law; approval for such capital should be ob- tained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations, under the procedure specified by existing legislation. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain com- memorative gold coins, which are legal tender. For- eign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia but can- not export them except with the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Such gold coins may be sold to any authorized bank, and residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance with the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the K import regime; they may freely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 YUGOSLAVIA export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au- thorized banks may freely export gold coin. Pro- ducers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the international gold market. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price that equals the average quotation in free gold mar- kets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes During 1989 Exchange Arrangement December 18. The exchange rate was fixed at Din 70,000 = DM 1. Imports and Import Payments December 22. The LBO import regime (condi- tionally free imports) was eliminated. Most of the goods that were subject to LBO licensing were transferred to the LB regime (totally free imports). December 1. Enterprises were allowed to import directly raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital equipment necessary for their production. Enterprises that are registered with the commercial courts and are authorized to produce and sell spe- cific goods in Yugoslavia were also permitted to import and export the same goods and services. December 20. Residents were allowed to purchase foreign exchange from the official banking system with dinars without restriction. However, the exist- ing restrictions on outward transfers of foreign ex- change by residents for purposes of effecting cur- rent and capital transactions remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. The official exchange rate of the zaire is freely determined in the interbank foreign exchange market, in which the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) participates. At a weekly meeting of the authorized banks under the chairmanship of the Bank of Zaire, the official fixing rate is determined on the basis of the buying and selling bids at which demand and supply are in equilibrium. The SDR equivalent of the fixing rate is then maintained during the following week. What- ever the weekly fixing rate is, commercial banks are free to negotiate the rates in their daily transactions among themselves and with their clients. On De- cember 29, 1989, the midpoint exchange rate of the zaire in the interbank market was Z 454.6 = US$1. The official exchange rates for the zaire against 20 currencies1 in which authorized banks (and other intermediaries) are permitted to deal are published daily by the Bank of Zaire. The rates for the zaire against these currencies are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire on the basis of the SDR rates for these currencies, applying the SDR rate for the zaire that prevailed at the last weekly fixing. In addition to a commission charge of not more than 1 percent, for- eign exchange transactions between the authorized commercial banks and nonbank customers are sub- ject to an exchange control fee of 3 per mill, payable to the Bank of Zaire. There are no commission charges or exchange fees on foreign exchange trans- actions in the interbank market. Forward exchange transactions are permitted for a maximum period of 60 days with respect to trade, invisibles, and capital transactions under certain conditions. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance and Budget, manages the medium- and long-term external and domestic public and pub- licly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servic- ing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including terms and guarantees ex- tended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In prin- ciple, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Pay- ments to nonresidents from residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting their nonresident convertible accounts. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi and Rwanda) and the member countries of the Communaute Economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)2 are made through convertible accounts established under ar- rangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Bal- ances on these convertible accounts at the end of settlement periods, which is a quarter for CEPGL countries and a month for the CEEAC countries, are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for re- exports) with the member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de Compensation de 1'Afrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. 2Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe. 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 ZAIRE Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident ac- counts: Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), Nonresident Convertible Accounts (comptes etrangers convert- ibles), Nonresident Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and Nonresident Special Ac- counts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresi- dent accounts are maintained as non-interest- bearing sight deposits, and no overdraft is permitted. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, as well as Nonresident Convertible and Special Accounts, can be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the opening of Nonresident Ordinary Accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not re- quired when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those re- presenting international and official multilateral or- ganizations), and official civil and military coopera- tion programs. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited with foreign currency payments by resi- dents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of foreign currencies from Nonresident Convertible Accounts; (3) foreign exchange pro- ceeds resulting directly from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other Nonresident Foreign Currency Ac- counts. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against zaires; (3) foreign exchange charges arising from arbitrage transactions of foreign currencies au- thorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other Nonresi- dent Foreign Currency Accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Convertible Accounts may be credited with (1) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank market; (2) transfers from other Nonresident Convertible Accounts as well as from Resident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit Nonresident Convertible Accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) purchases at an authorized bank of foreign cur- rencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other Nonresident Convertible Accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking com- missions and fees. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zaires from Nonresident Convertible Accounts; and (3) receipts in zaires from residents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consu- lar and chancery fees, and other services as spec- ified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other Nonresident Ordinary Ac- counts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, assets held in Nonresident Ordinary Accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to Nonresident Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) sale or rent from real estate proper- ties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, com- mercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non- Zairian residents permanently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a Nonresident Spe- cial Account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons, as must proceeds from the sale of real estate or the renting of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian residents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts under this cate- gory can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organizations or any non- profit cultural, philanthropic, or social organiza- tions; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Government of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 555 Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transactions but not with receipts from exports of goods, services, or the prefinancing of such ex- ports.3 These accounts may be sight or term ac- counts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire pub- lishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obli- gation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign exchange account to another. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports are applicable to im- ports financed from these accounts. Any import payments permitting this method of payment (using Form I) may be made by debiting these ac- counts. The payment of royalties, merchandise transport costs, services, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts may be made by authorized banks on the instruction of holders of these accounts who provide the supporting docu- ments required under the exchange regulations. For account holders with required supporting docu- mentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or to be incurred abroad, educa- tional or training expenses incurred or to be in- curred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, mate- rials contrary to public morals, certain alcoholic bev- erages, and equipment for aerial and maritime navi- gation is prohibited (or requires special authorization from the Executive Council). Most other imports are subject only to an import declara- tion at the authorized banks. In general, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; if an im- porter wishes a longer validity period, it must be indicated in the import documents accompanying the import declaration. The validity may be ex- tended by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; extension of the validity period requires au- thorization from the Bank of Zaire if shipment has not begun. Imports of goods intended for expansion of capital base or for importer's own use may be 3There are, however, several exceptions. Companies in certain sectors are allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange earnings (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds) in such accounts. effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 5,000 and that they are financed by the importer's own resources. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Interest payments on foreign financing for imports are authorized only if the importer has ob- tained suppliers' credit or other form of foreign financing with a maturity of at least 90 days, and provided that no advance deposit in foreign cur- rency with the foreign correspondent of the autho- rized bank involved has been made. A detailed rec- ord of all financing charges is required to be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the do- mestic authorized bank and is used as a basic docu- ment to justify any payments of import financing charges. Financing charges are treated as invisible payments associated with the import transaction involved. Authorized banks are allowed to pay transportation and insurance costs in foreign cur- rency only on imports for which they pay on an f .o.b. basis. Imports are subjected to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Office Zairois de Controle (OZAC); however, verification may be effected upon arrival by establishing a guarantee. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f .o.b.) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, or SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports transported by foreign air carriers with charges payable in foreign currency, if such costs exceed the f.o.b. value by 20 percent; (2) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (3) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports con- tracted or guaranteed by the Government; and (4) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency prior to shipment. The customs tariff rates range from 5 percent to 50 percent, and the rate of the turnover tax ranges from 0 to 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 ZAIRE Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign ex- change of commissions in favor of shippers or pur- chasing agents. Zairian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by the Office Zairois de Gestion des Frets Maritimes. Banks may effect freight payments only on submis- sion of invoices by the shippers or their agents. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sal- aries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 per- cent of net salary, provided that the nontransferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are authorized. Transfers of nonresidents' rental income are sus- pended. Payments for commissions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires for trips starting in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the status of the traveler. Zairian nationals re- siding in Zaire are allowed to purchase foreign ex- change at the authorized commercial banks to cover the following expenses: travel, medical treatment, students' tuition and living costs, and training abroad. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are en- titled to purchase once a month the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The import of Zairian notes, coin, and other Zairian means of payment, by both residents and nonresidents, is prohibited. However, the import of such means of payment by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the limits of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to validate such declarations. The decla- ration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days; the export proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period. Unless otherwise provided, export proceeds must be received within 45 days. Coffee is subject to quality control. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Gen- erale des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire, which is authorized to retain 45 percent of its net export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad and must surrender the remainder to the Bank of Zaire. The export, turnover, and statistical taxes on cof- fee exports have been suspended. Coffee exported by the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF) is subject to a tax at the rate of 2 percent. Partial retention of export proceeds abroad is also permitted for a limited number of other enterprises, including the Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA—50 percent) and the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (MIBA—20 percent). Full retention of export receipts in accounts abroad is permitted for a number of other enterprises, in- cluding the oil corporations. The trade of artisanal gold and diamonds is, in principle, free, with ex- ports being channeled through authorized market- ing agencies (comptoirs agrees). Authorized export- ers of gold are allowed to retain 30 percent of their export receipts in resident foreign exchange ac- counts. Industrial diamonds are sold through the De Beers Group. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cocoa, tea, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. The export of Zairian notes and coins and other Zairian means of payment is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Authorized banks may retain all their foreign ex- change receipts from invisibles on the same basis as their export receipts. Travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes or other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, provided that they are declared to immigration upon entering Zaire. Declaration of means of payment denominated in foreign currency is not required upon departure. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in un- der the provisions of the Investment Code is permit- ted only at the time of liquidation; the transfer of profits and dividends from such capital is guaran- teed. Daily ceilings are set on the net foreign cur- rency position of each authorized bank. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 557 the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate per- sons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for account of authorized marketing agencies. With the exception of jewelry, imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Some of the gold pro- duced by mining companies is purchased by the Bank of Zaire under agreed terms. The Bank of Zaire may authorize part of the gold produced by these companies to be sold to residents for their industrial activities. There is free trade in domestic gold mined by small-scale producers. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The minimum customs tariff rate on all goods was increased to 15 percent from 10 percent, with the exception of that on heavy equipment for which the minimum rate was set at 5 percent. The maximum customs tariff rate was reduced to 50 per- cent from 70 percent. In addition, the range for the turnover tax on imports was changed to 0-20 per- cent. May 12. The ban on the importation of wax cloth was lifted. Exports and Export Proceeds July 9. The following measures were taken to en- courage exports of coffee: (1) the list of authorized exporters was abolished; (2) access to red and green clauses (from foreign importers) was reopened; (3) export taxes, including the turnover tax (CCA) and the statistical tax, were suspended; and (4) the export tax on coffee exported by the Zairian Office for Coffee (Office Zairois du Cafe, OZACAF) was reduced to 2 percent from 9 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Its external value is fixed in terms of the SDR. Dur- ing 1989, the exchange rate of the kwacha was de- valued on several occasions from K 13.4115 per SDR 1 on January 1,1989, to K 28.98852 per SDR on December 29, 1989. Most of the foreign exchange allocations are made by the Foreign Exchange Man- agement Committee (FEMAC) on the basis of pre- determined priorities. Other transactions through the "no-funds-involved" licenses and the export- retention scheme require approval by the Bank of Zambia. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Autho- rized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 percent for purchases and sales of foreign exchange. On De- cember 29, 1989, the Bank of Zambia's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 21.546 = US$1 and K 21.980 = US$1, respectively. Autho- rized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for transactions by tele- graphic transfers, and 1.25 percent for sales and purchases of foreign currency notes, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. The control of trade is the responsi- bility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also is- sues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is formulated by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Allocation of foreign ex- change, however, is made by FEMAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any for- eign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts (Nonresidents) Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by residents of other countries, includ- ing diplomats and staff of international organiza- tions whose employment contracts with the Government of Zambia specifically provide for the operation of nonresident accounts, are designated External Accounts. Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange con- trol authorities before designating any new External Account. These accounts may be credited and deb- ited with prior exchange control permission. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be deb- ited each year for the permitted anniversary al- lowance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. The interest on Blocked Ac- count balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain specified products are pro- hibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, samples, diplo- matic shipments, and means of transportation en- tering Zambia temporarily do not require individ- ual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 10,000 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no foreign exchange is made avail- able for goods not licensed, even where the value is less than K 10,000. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Com- merce. All other imports require individual import licenses. Import licenses are issued in accordance with the priorities established by FEMAC; a fee amounting to 558 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 559 5 percent of the value of the imported goods is levied on licenses for imports from nonmember countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA). Importers must obtain foreign exchange by submitting an applica- tion to FEMAC before import licenses can be issued. Subsequently, the commercial banks will open usance letters of credit, and all financial arrange- ments between importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zambia. Importers intending to import goods not involving use of official foreign exchange (proceeds from export retention and "no funds in- volved") are not required to obtain the prior ap- proval of FEMAC before applying to the Export and Import Division of the Bank of Zambia (jointly with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry) for a no- funds-involved import license. Importers applying for a no-funds-involved import license are not ques- tioned regarding the source of the foreign exchange. The Bank of Zambia does not approve payments for imports unless a satisfactory report regarding preshipment inspection is issued by international agencies. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, giving specified information. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 15 percent of taxable value, which is calculated on the basis of 125 percent of the customs value, plus the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments in foreign exchange for freight and other related charges on imports require the ap- proval of the Bank of Zambia before application can be made to FEMAC for allocation of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for business travel is US$225 a person a day for up to 14 days a calendar year; foreign exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel is not granted. Travel allowance of US$50 a trip is granted to children returning to schools overseas. Al- lowances for education and medical treatment abroad may be granted by the Bank of Zambia. Remittances abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administra- tive, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents must be made by using foreign exchange authorized by FEMAC af ter prior approval has been granted by the Bank of Zambia. Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated out- side Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 per- cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 percent of net profits accruing to the nonresi- dent owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller, with foreign exchange obtained through FEMAC. Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits, including profits earned from a partnership or private limited company engaged in farming. A further 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remit- tances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. Airlines that do not land in Zambia are not allowed to remit funds abroad, except for those funds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may remit up to the equivalent of US$4,260 a year in monthly installments as an "inducement al- lowance." In addition, they may remit an end-of- contract gratuity of up to 25 percent of the cumula- tive inducement allowances. The payments of ex- patriates employed by the Zambian Consolidated Mining Company (ZCCM) are made from their own allocations of foreign exchange, whereas all other inducement payments are to be made from the working balances of commercial banks. Foreign na- tionals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, and maintenance; their leave salary, gra- tuity, and other terminal benefits are transferable only on completion of the contract period as part of their emigration allowance. Travelers leaving Zam- bia may take out a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a license, except those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agreements with the mining com- panies. Exports of certain metals are reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Market- ing Corporation. Exports of a number of products are prohibited or restricted to ensure domestic sup- plies of needed goods and of certain strategic mate- rials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, maize, wheat, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia within one month of receipt; the ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zam- bia account in London upon receipt and is allocated an amount judged necessary to meet its own for- eign exchange needs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 ZAMBIA All exports must be financed through irrevocable letters of credit and be registered with the Bank of Zambia. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is required for all exports whose methods of payment are different from those mentioned above. As an export incentive, up to 50 percent of nontraditional export proceeds may be used by the exporter. How- ever, all such export receipts must be surrendered in full to the Bank of Zambia by commercial banks, and exporters must apply to the Bank of Zambia for reallocation of the same for their import financing requirements. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign ex- change, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding for- eign exchange incentives for national agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. measure, however, residents may purchase Zam- bian securities quoted on recognized stock ex- changes abroad, provided that the securities so ac- quired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subsequent dis- posal of these securities, the sales proceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these invest- ments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as fol- lows: (1) settling-in allowance of the equivalent of K 6,000 for a single person, K 8,000 for a married couple, K 12,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 500 a child up to a maximum of four children; and (2) anniversary allowance of the equivalent of K 3,000 for a single person, K 6,000 for a married couple, and K 7,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, there are special facilities for ex- patriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invis- ibles, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that trav- elers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 100 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but all borrowings, including overseas short-term fi- nancing of imports other than certain capital goods, outside Zambia require the approval of the ex- change control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are nor- mally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities or savings of for- eign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange accruing to them. As a special Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange con- trol approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is ex- ported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes During 1989 Imports and Import Payments March 3. Applications for import licenses using proceeds from export retention or "no funds in- volved" were required to be processed only by the Export and Import Division of the Bank of Zambia; previously, the approval of FEMAC was also required. March 17. It was announced that importers apply- ing for "no-funds-involved" import licenses would not be questioned regarding the source of their for- eign exchange. July 10. The import license fee of 5 percent was abolished with respect to imports from member countries of the PTA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 561 Payments for Invisibles January 12. It was announced that remittances by expatriate employees working on contract will be restricted to US$4,260 a year (retroactive to Novem- ber 8,1988) and henceforth be denominated in U.S. dollar terms; previously the limit was denominated in kwacha. (The new limit in U.S. dollar terms was the same as that expressed in terms of the kwacha at the exchange rates prevailing before this date.) November 15. The limit on the amount of Zambian currency a traveler leaving the country is allowed to take out was raised to K 100 from K 10. Proceeds from Invisibles November 15. The limit on the amount of Zambian currency a traveler arriving in Zambia is allowed to bring in was raised to K 100 from K 10. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1989) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 29,1989, the buying and selling rates were US$0.4449 and US$0.4391, respectively, per Z$l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to five years, with a loading of 5 percent a year up to 25 percent. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount and/or premium rates for major currencies. The Reserve Bank pur- chases foreign exchange at the spot preferential telex transfer rate quoted to authorized dealers, less 0.35 percent for three-month contracts and an addi- tional 0.10 percent for each month beyond three months up to 0.65 percent for a six-month contract. Sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus 0.65 percent for three-month contracts and an additional 0.30 per- cent for each month up to 1.55 percent for a six- month contract. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers their own telex transfer (sight rates plus or minus the margins applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning, and Development under the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Autho- rized dealers have been empowered to approve cer- tain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Au- thorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars, issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in ac- cordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979; the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use na- tional currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 562 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 563 Imports and Import Payments With the exception of a few products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all im- ports are subject to licensing requirements. Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of for- eign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Com- mittee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Eco- nomic Planning, and Development, and are made available through the Ministry of Trade and Com- merce and the Ministry of Industry and Technology. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce basically han- dles allocations for goods in the commercial cate- gory, and those in the industrial category are han- dled by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Imports in the commercial category include im- ports by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essen- tiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of em- ployment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allo- cated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign ex- change allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive through the Ministry of Industry and Technology separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, and the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with possible addi- tional allocation from an export-revolving fund against proof of exports. Industrial exporters may also receive a supplementary allocation, deter- mined on the basis of their incremental export per- formance, to import raw materials to be used in production for the domestic market. Export- oriented mining and agricultural firms may obtain supplemental allocations under the export promo- tion programs. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but the validity period can be extended in certain cir- cumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o.b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submit- ted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 35 percent of the c .i .f. value, and specific duties on a number of prod- ucts. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of 12V2 percent to 20 percent, equivalent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. In principle, foreign investors are allowed to remit 50 percent of after-tax profits on investments under- taken after September 1, 1979, whereas after-tax profits on investments undertaken before Septem- ber 1, 1979 are allowed to be remitted only up to 25 percent. Remittances of up to 100 percent of after-tax profits may be allowed in exceptional cases, such as on investments that involve transfers of high technology, generate employment, or result in net foreign exchange earnings. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$60 a day, up to a maximum of Z$450 for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are en- titled to one half of these amounts.) The allowance may be accumulated up to three years, but it is not granted in advance. A tax of 20 percent is applied on sales of foreign exchange for purposes of holiday ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 ZIMBABWE travel. The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related business travel is Z$200 a day, up to a maximum of Z$l,500 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$3,000; for export-related business travel, the exchange allowance is Z$250 a day, for a maximum of Z$2,000 a trip and an annual limit of Z$4,000. Applications for business travel allowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank and are treated favor- ably, especially those for export-related trips. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level within the following limits: Z$4,000 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and Z$10,000 a year for education at specified universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treat- ment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$100 a day for a maximum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Re- mittances of up to Z$100 for subscriptions to re- ligious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial member- ship fee is Z$100. Remittances to close relatives per- manently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceed- ing Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each family unit, are permit- ted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Outward remittances in respect of fees for technical, admin- istrative, management, and consultancy services, or to defray external expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank. Beginning from March 27, 1984, the settling-in allowance that can be remitted abroad by emigrants is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the ex- change control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. Beginning from April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. In exceptional cases of emigrants unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and sin- gle persons with dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$10,000. A further release of capital was authorized as an an- nual allowance on each anniversary date of the emi- grant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of the travel allowance, not more than Z$400 in Zimbabwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Non- resident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresi- dent travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. All travelers are required to pay an airport tax of US$10 on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products that are not covered by the Open General License System; these include (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum prod- ucts; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export- licensing requirements are intended to ensure ade- quate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be so made within three months of the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received in one of the following forms: (1) in a de- nominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, in checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), member countries can use na- tional currencies in the settlement of payments dur- ing a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Since August 1, 1984, an export subsidy at the rate of 9 percent of the f .o.b. value has been granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 565 on specified exports of nontraditional products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must to be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable period of time. Res- idents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without re- strictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zim- babwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a max- imum of Z$40. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be consid- ered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requirement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the established me- dium of six-year external government bonds bear- ing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Sep- tember 1,1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external govern- ment bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years in the case of individuals, or 20 years in the case of firms.2 From March 27, 1984, former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in Government of Zimbabwe ex- ternal bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. The remittability of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the constitution. All other out- ward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. 2Effective January 20, 1989, repatriation at accelerated rates, depending on discounted sales prices of net equity, is allowed. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zim- babwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of between zero and 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as deter- mined by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. From April 1989, blocked funds are allowed to be utilized for investment by third parties, foreign as well as domestic investors, at freely negotiated terms. As new venture capital, the total investment will be eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 per- cent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must remain reinvested in Zimbabwe for a minimum of five years depending on individual cases. Gold The export of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The administration of the Order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The im- port of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which provides for certain requirements to be met when a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; (2) he is the holder or distribu- tor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is re- quired to lodge with this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 ZIMBABWE produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1989 Capital January 20. Subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank, repatriation of funds invested in external gov- ernment bonds at accelerated rates, depending on discounted sales prices of net equity, was allowed. April 18. The regulations governing foreign in- vestment were modified, whereby remittances of after-tax profits of up to 100 percent would be ap- proved depending on the priority status of investments. The regulations applying to the use of blocked deposits were liberalized, whereby transfers of such funds to approved new investors at a freely negotiated price were permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Economic Community: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EEC-Wide Basis During 1989 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 7. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of serial-impact fully-formed- character printers originating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 34/89). January 23. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of paint, distemper, varnish, and brushes originating in the People's Republic of China imposed on September 29, 1988 (Regulation No. 3052/88) were extended (Council Regulation No. 177/89). February 20. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of urea originating in the United States and Venezuela, and the definitive antidumping duty on imports of urea originating in Saudi Arabia, laid down by Regulation N6. 3339/87, was adjusted (Council Regulation No. 450/89). February 27. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of certain videocassette re- corders originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 501/89). March 17. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. (Commission Regulation No. 707/89). March 17. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of certain flat-rolled products of cold-rolled iron or nonalloy steel originating in Yugoslavia (Commission Decision No. 708/89/ ECSC). April 17. Provisional antidumping duties on im- ports of videocassettes and videotape reels originat- ing in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea im- posed on December 24, 1988 (Regulation No. 4062/88) were extended (Council Regulation No. 996/89). May 9. An undertaking relating to the antidump- ing proceeding concerning plain paper photo cop- iers assembled or produced in the Community was accepted by Sharp Manufacturing Ltd. (United Kingdom) (Regulation No. 689/309/EEC). May 11. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of light sodium carbonate orig- inating in Bulgaria, the German Democratic Re- public, Poland, and Romania (Council Regulation No. 1306/89). June 19. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of videocassettes originating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea (Council Reg- ulation No. 1768/89). July 6. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of certain flat-rolled products of iron or cold-rolled nonalloy steel originating in Yugoslavia (Commission Decision No. 2031/89/ ECSC). July 18. Provisional antidumping duties on im- ports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. imposed on March 21, 1989 (Regulation No. 709/89) were ex- tended (Council Regulation No. 2165/89). July 18. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of vinyl acetate monomer orig- inating in the United States (Council Regulation No. 2166/89). July 18. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of certain compact disc players originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Commission Regulation No. 2140/89). July 31. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of barium chloride originating in the People's Republic of China and the German Democratic Republic (Commission Regulation No. 2402/89). September 18. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. (Regulation No. 2808/89). October 6. Antidumping duties imposed (by Council Regulation No. 3651/88) on certain serial- impact dot-matrix printers originating in Japan and assembled in the Community were extended (Council Regulation No. 3042/89). October 11. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of welded tubes originating in Romania and Yugoslavia (Council Regulation No. 3074/89). October 16. Antidumping measures applicable to imports of certain acrylic fibers originating in Mex- ico were replaced with an antidumping duty in respect of imports that have been supplied by firms that have accepted certain undertakings (Council Regulation No. 3121/89). October 24. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of small-screen color television receivers originating in the Republic of Korea (Com- mission Regulation No. 3232/89). 567 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 APPENDIX November 14. Provisional antidumping duties were extended on imports of compact disc players originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 3444/89). November 21. Antidumping duties imposed (by Regulation No. 3651/88) on certain serial-impact dot-matrix printers originating in Japan and as- sembled in the Community were extended (Council Regulation No. 3490/89). November 27. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of barium chloride originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China and the German Democratic Republic imposed on August 4, 1989 (Council Reg- ulation No. 2402/89) were extended (Council Reg- ulation No. 3555/89). 2. Elimination January 20. Antidumping duties on imports of certain seamless tubes of iron or nonalloy steel orig- inating in Austria were eliminated (Commission Decision No. 56/89). February 27. Antidumping duties imposed (by Regulation No. 1021/88 on certain electronic scales) originating in Japan and assembled in the Com- munity by TEC Ltd. (United Kingdom) were elimi- nated (Council Regulation No. 502/89). June 19. Definitive antidumping duties on im- ports of fiber building board (hardboard) originat- ing in Poland were eliminated (Council Regulation No. 1786/89). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 151/89). January 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 168/89). January 31. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 258/89). February 9. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 328/89). February 9. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 327/89). February 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 477/89). March 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 551/89). March 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Poland (Commis- sion Regulation No. 552/89). March 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 590/89). March 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 636/89). March 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt (Com- mission Regulation No. 653/89). March 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in the Canary Is- lands (Commission Regulation No. 755/89). March 28. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 784/89). March 28. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cabbage lettuce originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 783/89). April 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 882/89). April 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt (Com- mission Regulation No. 881/89). April 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland (Com- mission Regulation No. 896/89). April 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cabbage lettuce originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 895/89). April 11. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 935/89). April 12. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 947/89). April 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 962/89). April 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Chile (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1039/89). April 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Spain (except ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 569 the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1038/89). April 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Is- lands (Commission Regulation No. 1057/89). April 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of zucchini originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1087/89). April 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Morocco (Com- mission Regulation No. 1086/89). May 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1204/89). May 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 1263/89). May 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt (Com- mission Regulation No. 1269/89). May 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 1400/89). May 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland (Com- mission Regulation No. 1491/89). June 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1548/89). June 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1562/89). June 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apricots originating in Tunisia (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1563/89). June 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apricots originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1564/89).f June 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 1574/89). June 13. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1670/89). June 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Romania (Com- mission Regulation No. 1687/89). June 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Albania (Com- mission Regulation No. 1688/89). June 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of peaches, including nectarines, originat- ing in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1689/89). June 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1690/89). June 15. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apricots originating in Tunisia (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1708/89). June 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Bulgaria (Com- mission Regulation No. 1722/89). June 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1799/89). June 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Com- mission Regulation No. 1798/89). June 27. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 1868/89). June 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1962/89). July 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 2005/89). July 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 2004/89). July 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regula- tion No. 2055/89). July 11. Countervailing charge was introduced on imports of fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Com- mission Regulation No. 2079/89). July 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2128/89). July 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2161/89). July 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of pears originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 2176/89). July 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2214/89). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 APPENDIX July 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 2213/89). July 31. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of table grapes originating in Cyprus (Com- mission Regulation No. 2357/89). August 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2435/89). August 9. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Com- mission Regulation No. 2451/89). August 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2517/89). August 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Yugoslavia (Commission Regulation No. 2516/89). August 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2515/89). August 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Commission Regulation No. 2531/89). August 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Argentina (Com- mission Regulation No. 2558/89). August 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2578/89). August 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Australia (Com- mission Regulation No. 2595/89). August 28. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2604/89). August 28. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Yugoslavia (Commission Regulation No. 2603/89). August 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2618/89). August 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Argentina (Com- mission Regulation No. 2631/89). September 1. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Australia (Com- mission Regulation No. 2670/89). September 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2714/89). September 12. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of table grapes originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 2760/89). September 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Australia (Com- mission Regulation No. 2960/89). October 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2977/89). October 2. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Argentina (Com- mission Regulation No. 2976/89). October 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in Portugal (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2988/89). October 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in New Zealand (Commission Regulation No. 3111/89). October 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Commission Regulation No. 3167/89). October 27. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 3250/89). October 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of tomatoes originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 3275/89). October 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of apples originating in New Zealand (Commission Regulation No. 3273/89). December 22. Countervailing charge was imposed on imports of fresh tangerines originating in Tunisia (Commission Regulation No. 3933/89). 2. Elimination January 3. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 5/89). January 16. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh tangerines originating in Morocco was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 91/89). February 6. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regula- tion No. 302/89). February 28. Countervailing charge on imports of artichokes originating in Egypt was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 525/89). March 28. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regula- tion No. 781/89). March 31. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 852/89). April 10. Countervailing charge on imports of ar- tichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 571 Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 922/89). April 17. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 993/89). April 25. Countervailing charge on imports of ar- tichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1068/89). April 27. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1106/89). May 2. Countervailing charge on imports of zuc- chini originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1188/89). May 3. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 1209/89). May 8. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1259/89). May 16. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1331/89). May 18. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1357/89). May 24. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1421/89). May 29. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1477/89). May 29. Countervailing charge on imports of ap- ples originating in Chile was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1478/89). June 8. Countervailing charge on imports of cucumbers originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1605/89). June 8. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1606/89). June 15. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regula- tion No. 1710/89). June 15. Countervailing charge on imports of cer- tain varieties of plum originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1709/89). June 19. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1747/89). June 23. Countervailing charge on imports of pea- ches, including nectarines, originating in Spain (ex- cept the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1827/89). June 23. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1826/89). June 27. Countervailing charge on imports of ap- ricots originating in Spain (except in the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1871/89). June 27. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1870/89). July 6. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2020/89). July 10. Countervailing charge on imports of cer- tain varieties of plum originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2056/89). July 11. Countervailing charge on imports of ap- ples originating in Chile was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2078/89). July 11. Countervailing charge on imports of cher- ries originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2077/89). July 11. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2076/89). July 17. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2148/89). July 17. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Brazil was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2147/89). July 19. Countervailing charge on imports of egg- plants originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2177/89). July 27. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2295/89). August 2. Countervailing charge on imports of pears originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2382/89). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 APPENDIX August 11. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2479/89). August 21. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regula- tion No. 2538/89). August 25. Countervailing charge on imports of certain varieties of plum originating in Hun- gary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2596/89). September 18. Countervailing charge on imports of table grapes originating in Israel was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2807/89). October 20. Countervailing charge on imports of apples originating in Portugal was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3154/89). October 27. Countervailing charge on imports of eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3249/89). October 30. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3274/89). November 6. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3335/89). November 8. Countervailing charge on imports of tomatoes originating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3359/89). November 13. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Argentina was elimi- nated (Commission Regulation No. 3407/89). Preferential Customs Duties 1. Suspension (and reintroduction of the Common Customs Tariff duty) January 6. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 24/89). (The preferential customs duty was re- established on July 7; see section on Re- establishment, below.) January 11. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regula- tion No. 53/89). February 24. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 478/89). (The preferential customs duty was re- established on March 1; see section on Re- establishment, below.) March 8. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 600/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on April 27; see section on Re- establishment, below.) March 10. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regula- tion No. 627/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on May 2; see section on Re- establishment, below.) April 3. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 864/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on April 6; see section on Re- establishment, below.) April 18. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 1007/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on June 9; see section on Re- establishment, below.) May 2. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1182/89). May 11. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1276/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on July 20; see section on Re- establishment, below.) May 17. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 1330/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on June 16; see section on Re- establishment, below.) May 24. The preferential customs duty was sus- pended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) car- nations originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1405/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on July 20; see section on Re-establishment, below.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 573 October 18. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3128/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on November 22; see section on Re- establishment, below.) October 25. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3193/89). November 9. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of uniflorous carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3371/89). (The preferential customs duty was re-established on December 14; see section on Re- establishment, below.) November 9. The preferential customs duty was suspended, and the Common Customs Tariff duty was reintroduced on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3370/89). 2. Re-establishment March 1. The preferential customs duty on im- ports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 535/89). April 6. The preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Is- rael was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 893/89). April 27. The preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1104/89). May 2. The preferential customs duty on im- ports of large-flowered roses originating in Moroc- co was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1184/89). June 9. The preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (bloom) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1631/89). June 9. The preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Is- rael was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1632/89). June 16. The preferential customs duty on im- ports of large-flowered roses originating in Moroc- co was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1717/89). July 7. The preferential customs duty on imports of large- flowered roses originating in Israel was re- established (Commission Regulation No 2030/89). July 20. The preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Mo- rocco was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2194/89). July 20. The preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re- established (Commission Regulation No. 2195/89). November 22. The preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3496/89). December 14. The preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originat- ing in Israel was re-established (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3775/89). Generalized Tariff Preferences (Under Council Regulation No. 4257/88) 1. Withdrawal March 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on footwear with outer sole and uppers of rubber orig- inating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 549/89). March 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on reception apparatus for radio-telephony, radio- telegraphy, and radio-broadcasting originating in Malaysia (Commission Regulation No. 550/89). March 30. Customs duties were reintroduced on reception apparatus for radio-telephony, radio- telegraphy, and radio-broadcasting originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Reg- ulation No. 813/89). April 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on footwear with outer soles and uppers of rubber or plastic originating in Indonesia (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1099/89). May 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on footwear with outer soles of rubber, plastic, leather, or composition leather and with leather uppers originating in India (Commission Regulation No. 1367/89). September 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on zinc oxide and zinc peroxide originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 2804/89). October 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on mounted piezo-electric crystals originating in Mal- aysia (Commission Regulation No. 3127/89. November 10. Customs duties were introduced on gelatins and derivatives thereof originating in Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 3389/89). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 APPENDIX Import Surveillance 1. Introduction January 13. Issuance of import licenses for manioc and similar products originating in Indonesia (as stipulated in Commission Regulation No. 348/89) was suspended (Commission Regulation No. 76/89). March 13. Issuance of import licenses for certain processed products obtained from sour cherries originating in Yugoslavia was suspended (Commis- sion Regulation No. 638/89). April 13. The United Kingdom was authorized to apply intra-Community surveillance to imports of certain types of footwear originating in the People's Republic of China (89/283/EEC). October 2. Imports of certain textile products originating in Morocco or Tunisia were subjected to import surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 2985/89). October3. Imports of certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Malta, Morocco, Syrian Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia for which reference quantities for 1990 will be set were subjected to import surveillance (Council Regula- tion No. 3014/89). October 11. Imports of carrots and onions originat- ing in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific States or in their overseas countries and territories were sub- jected to ceiling and surveillance (except in Portu- gal) (Commission Regulation No. 3062/89). December 11. Reimports of certain textile products that were outward processed as defined under the Community's rules and originating in Malta, Mo- rocco, Tunisia, and Turkey were subjected to import surveillance (Commission Regulation No. 3714/89. December 28. Import surveillance of video tape recorders originating in the Republic of Korea expir- ing on December 31, 1989 (Commission Regulation No. 4116/88) was extended until December 31,1990 (Commission Regulation No. 4029/89). Quantitative Import Restrictions (Against Hungary and Poland) November 6. It was announced that, effective Jan- uary 1, 1990, quantitative import restrictions on products originating in Hungary and Poland (as provided for in Council Regulation No. 3420/83 of November 14, 1983) would be liberalized substan- tially by limiting them to products listed in Annex I to Council Regulation No. 288/82 of February 5,1982 (Council Regulation No. 3381/89). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries 575 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first « "S I .5 00 "2 S g I? ,n £ I i ^ <2 c * 'C C S en £ „ I 1 „ § r- "2 i i11111!?! Ii1ii1111111111 Mir ^ C C VH IH 3 3 x <0 ns rt o> O> o> A O O »H 3 3 r<s <s <s ^ < < < < - < < < < P t S p Q p O p Q P Q G Q B Q B Q p Q P Q C Q C Q U U UU g ° £ _ g i « 0> D A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV s ta tus B. Exchange A r rangemen t3 1. Exchange ra te determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U .S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French f ranc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) ad jus ted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independen t ly floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one ra te for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) d i f f e r ent f rom export rates C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 581. 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 C d a h C h l i e C h i a n , P e p o e l s ' R p e . o f C o o l m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C o t e d l ' o v r i e C p y r u s D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E t h i p o i a F i j i F i n l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G e r m y n a , F d e . R p e . o f G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G u i a e n - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y z(39ed AijunoD tsaij;uno3 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 581. 578 I e c l d n a I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , s I l a m i c R p e . o f r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e K u w a t i L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L n o n a b e L s e o t o h L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangemen t3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French f ranc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangemen ts: (/) ad jus ted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 3. More than one ra te for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent f rom export rates C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1 1 1 1 1 1 " 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 581. 580 o p a g n S i r e o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c n a p S i S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e y S i r n a A r b a R p e . T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k U a d n a g U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (H) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) d ifferent from export rates C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 m a N t e i V . p e R b a r A n e m e Y a o m a S n r e t s e W f o . R . D . P , n e m e Y i a v a l s o g u Y e r a i Z i a b m a Z e w b a b m i Z Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1990 Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a fea ture of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. !The listing includes a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong) for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Ex- change practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1989. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Ex- change arrangements involving transactions at a un i tary rate with a group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, f rom the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, Indian rupee, or South African rand. Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affec t ing the availability o r. cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. 6Resident-owned funds. 581 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ACP-EC ACU AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN BCEAO BEAC CACM CAP CARICOM CCCN CEEAC CEPGL CMA CMEA COCOM EC ECCB ECCM ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEC EFTA EMCF EMS EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBEC IBRD ICO IDA IMF LAIA LIBOR MEA MFN MTN OECD OECS OGL PTA SACU SPARTECA TMA UDEAC UN LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Unit Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de V Quest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Communaute Economique des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common Monetary Area Council for Mutual Economic Assistance Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls European Communities Eastern Caribbean Central Bank East Caribbean Common Market Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Economic Community European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund European Monetary System European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Economic Cooperation International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Coffee Organization International Development Association International Monetary Fund Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Open general license Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States South African Customs Union South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement Trilateral Monetary Agreement Central African Customs and Economic Union United Nations 582 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* WAEC WAMU WAUA West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union West African Unit of Account This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 583 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 