 T W E N T Y - E I G H TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IN T ERNA T IONAL MONETARY F U ND TW E N T Y - E I G H TH A N N U AL RE PORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS 1977 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 16, 1977 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ran sm it to you a copy of the In terna t ional Monetary Fund's Twenty-Eighth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ H. JOHANNES W ITTEVEEN Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director v ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART I in Restrictive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Imports and Import Paymen ts Qu an t i t a t ive Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxa- tion Advance Import Deposits Measures A f fec t ing Import Paymen ts State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Paymen ts A r rangemen ts . . .. Capital Flows Gold Movements III. Regional A r rangemen ts Appendix PART II Exp lana to ry Note to Coun t ry Surveys Country Surveys A fghan is tan Algeria Argentina Australia Aus t r ia Bahamas Bah ra in Bangladesh Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Bu rundi Cambodia * Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central Afr ican Empire Chad Chile 3 6 6 6 8 8 9 10 10 12 13 14 14 18 18 23 27 29 32 36 45 51 56 60 61 66 69 76 80 82 84 98 100 103 106 108 109 113 117 China, Republic of Colombia Comoros * Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equa to r ial G u i n ea E th iop ia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia G e rm any, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Gua tema la Guinea Guinea-Bissau * Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indones ia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jama ica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwa it Lao People's Democratic Republic * Page 123 128 140 143 146 149 154 157 161 166 169 171 173 176 180 189 192 194 198 202 207 209 210 212 215 216 218 219 222 233 237 241 244 248 253 261 264 269 274 277 281 285 * The Fund has not received from the au thor i t ies of Cambodia, the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1976. Vll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Republic Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal CONTENTS Page Page 287 288 290 291 294 297 300 303 304 307 310 312 315 319 324 327 332 335 340 342 346 350 353 354 359 361 363 366 372 378 382 383 386 388 389 Seychelles 392 Sierra Leone 393 Singapore 396 Somalia 400 South A f r ica 403 Spain 410 Sri Lanka 415 Sudan 420 Surinam 423 Swaziland 426 Sweden 427 Switzerland 432 Syrian Arab Republic 436 Tanzania 439 Thailand 441 Togo 444 Trinidad and Tobago 447 Tun is ia 451 Tu rkey 456 Uganda 463 Un i ted A rab Emirates 466 Un i t ed Kingdom 468 Un i ted States 481 Upper Volta 485 U ruguay 489 Venezuela 492 V iet Nam 494 Western Samoa 496 Yemen A rab Republic 498 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic o f. 499 Yugoslavia 501 Za i re 508 Zambia 512 Analytical Appendix 515 vm ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction3 The world economy made somewhat irregular progress toward cyclical recovery d u r i ng 1976. For the year as a whole, gains in output were mod- erate by reference to prior experience in the post- war period. Real ou tput in the indu s t r ial countries rose by almost 5l/2 per cen t, a f t er reg is te r ing a fa ll of about REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in Feb rua ry 1977. Th roughout the per iod under rev iew, the re were appreciable va r ia t ions in ex- change ra tes for ind iv idual cu r renc ies w i t h in the European common ma rg ins a r rangement re f lec t ing pressures in the exchange m a rk e ts a r is ing, in pa r t, f rom d ive rgent ra tes of pr ice and cost in f la t ion in the member coun t r ies of the a r r ang em en t. 2 A f ter dec l in ing sharply aga inst the U.S. dollar in Ju ly and early August, the exchange rate for the French f ranc showed l i t t le va r ia t ion in subsequent mon ths. The I ta l ian lira and the pound s ter l ing came u n d er renewed pressure du r ing September and October 1976 and both cu r renc ies su f fe red a f u r t h er sharp decline against the U.S. dollar. Toward the end of the period und er rev iew the pound rega ined some of the lost g round; the l i ra, howeve r, eased in a number of small steps. Both the Canad ian dollar and the Japanese yen were sub ject to g rea ter v a r i a t i on in the second half of 1976, the Canadian dollar experi- enc ing a pa r t icu la r ly sharp dec l ine vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar in late November. In early 1977 the Canad ian dollar depreciated and the Japanese yen appreciated against the U.S. dollar. The e f fec t ive exchange ra te of the deu tsche ma rk (as measured by the Fund's mu l t i la te ral exchange rate m o d e l )a registered a strong upwa rd movement in 1976 and the early mon ths of 1977; the e f fec t ive exchange ra te for the Swiss f r a nc followed a similar upward course du r ing 1976, although it was less p ronounced, but it eased somewhat in the first few mon ths of 1977. There was a slight increase in the effec t ive exchange rate for the U.S. dollar and a 2 On October 16, 1976 the member coun t r i es of the European common m a rg ins a r r ang em ent i n f o rm ed the Fund t h at they had agreed to a d j u st most of t h e ir m u t u al in te r- ven t ion ra tes. In te rms of SDRs the new c e n t r al ra tes wh ich took e f fect as a resu lt of these ac t ions rep re sen ted an in- crease of 2 per cent for the deu tsche m a r k, a decrease of 4 per cent for the Dan ish krone, and decreases of 1 per cent each for the No rweg ian krone and the Swedish k ron a; the cen t ral ra tes of the Be lg ian f r a nc and the Ne the r lands gu i ld er rema ined unchanged. 3 An index of e f fec t ive exchange ra tes is designed to measu re the average change of a coun t ry 's exchange ra te aga inst all o ther cu r renc ie s. In the ca lcu la t ion of such an index, a we ight rep resen t ing the comp a r a t ive impo r tance to the home economy of each fo re ign coun t ry is app l ied to the value, re la t ive to a chosen base pe r iod, of the exchange ra te between the f o r e i gn cu r rency in que s t ion and the home cu r rency. The index based on the Fund's m u l t i l a t e r al ex- change ra te model is one of several such ind ices us ing al- te rna t ive we igh t ing schemes. For f u r t h er i n f o rm a t i on on ind ices of e f fec t ive exchange ra tes see Rudo lf R. Rhombe rg, "Indices of E f f e c t i ve Exchange Rates," IMF, Staff Papers, Vol. XXIII, No. 1, March 1976, pp. 88-112. 4 somewhat g rea ter rise in the ra te for the Japanese y en. The e f fec t ive exchange ra te for the Canadian do l lar reg is tered a modest gain over the first half of 1976 but then dec l ined, w i th a par t icu lar ly sharp f a ll in la te Novembe r; a f t er recover ing slightly around the end of the yea r, it fe ll aga in in the ear ly months of 1977. E f fec t ive exchange ra tes for the French f r a n c, the I t a l i an l i ra, and the pound sterling a ll declined, but the decline in the rate for the French f r a nc was of mode ra te p ropo r t ions. The effec t ive exchange ra te for the lira fe ll sha rp ly through m id- Ap r i l, and t h e r e a f t er r em a in ed f a i r ly cons tan t. The e f f e c t i ve exchange r a te for the pound sterling dec l ined con t inuou s ly f rom March th rough Novem- ber, but sub sequen t ly recovered a little. . D u r i ng the per iod u n d er review a number of member c o u n t r i es adop ted exchange measu res which invo lved the i n t r o d u c t i on of a new exchange rate regime. As in the prev ious year, however, there was no i n d i c a t i on t h at coun t r i es resorted to competitive d e v a l u a t i o n. At the end of J a n u a ry 1977, some 94 of the 130 member coun t r i es of the Fund were pegg ing t h e ir cu r renc ies to ano th er cu r rency, to the SDR, or to ano th er compos i te of cu r renc ie s. Seven coun t r i es were a d j u s t i ng th e ir cu r renc ies at irregu lar in te rva ls accord ing to a set of ind ica to rs, and 7 coun t r ies were p a r t i c ip a t ing in the European common m a r g i ns a r r a n g em e n t. The r em a i n i ng 20 coun t r ies were fo l low ing other exchange rate a r rangemen t s. Last year's Repo rt no ted th at the recession in 1975 and the emergence of ser ious p aym en ts d i f f icu l- t ies had led to the i n t r o d u c t i on of more res t r ic t ive t rade and p aym en ts policies in a large number of coun t r ies, a l though few had in t roduced compre- hens ive impo rt re s t r ic t ions or exchange restrictions on an across-the-board basis. Du r ing the period u n d er rev iew th e re was a f u r t h er d r i ft toward the app l ica t ion of re s t r ic t ions on c u r r e nt paymen ts and t r an s a c t ion s. This occurred und er pressure for inc reased p ro tec t ion a r i s i ng in pa rt f rom h igh levels of un emp loym en t, especially in labor-intensive indu s t r i es in the i n d u s t r i al coun t r i e s. At the same t im e, the u p t u rn in world t rade in 1976 a ided coun- t r i es in re s i s t ing p ressu res to resort to current account r e s t r i c t ions for ba lance of paymen ts pur- poses on a large-scale basis. Nonetheless, a larger numb er of member coun t r ies and a grea ter propor- t ion of world t rade became sub ject to more res tr ic- t i ve policies, especially n o n t a r i ff b a r r i e rs to imports applied on a selective basis. Moreover, measures to res t r ict impo r ts were suppor ted, to an increas ing extent, by the nego t ia t ion of export res t ra int agree- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION ments. While previously these agreements occurred usually between industrialized countries and develop- ing countries, they have also been used recently to restrain t rade between some of the indus tr ial coun- tries. By early 1977, it was apparent that there had been an in te r rup t ion to the reduction of pro- tectionism that had characterized the commercial policy of the indus tr ial countries over the postwar period. Import restrictions for protective purposes in the latter coun tr ies, as well as in the more developed p r ima ry produc ing countries and in the developing coun tr ies, now appear to be at a per- ceptibly higher level than before the emergence of the recession in 1974. In May 1976 the member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) o ther than Portugal extended for a fu r th er year the ir Declaration on trade. This Declaration, under which the countries concerned agreed to avoid the use of trade restrictions for balance of payments purposes, was adopted in May 1974 for a period of one year, and was extended for a second year in May 1975. In the commun ique issued at the conclusion of its mee t ing in Man i la, the Philippines, on October 2, 1976, the In ter im Committee agreed tha t, given the cons tra int under which demand management policies must operate in the indus t r ial countries, special effor ts would be needed on the part of these countries, inc lud ing the reduc t ion of barr iers to trade in the negotiations which were in progress. The Comm i t tee also indicated a need to improve ma rket access to the expor ts of developing countries, and to increase the flow of deve lopment assistance. The Tokyo Round of mu l t i la teral t rade negotia- tions —in which some 90 countries are par t ic ipa t ing —con t inued under the auspices of the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade (GATT ). An interim result of the negotiations was the agreement reached on t a r i ff concessions to be extended by certain developed coun tr ies to developing countries expor t ing tropical products. Concessions in the tropical produc ts sector were imp lemen ted early in 1977 by Aus t ra l ia, the Eu ropean Economic Com- mun i ty (EEC ) ,4 Finland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. A number of other developed countries are expected to implement con- cessions in this sector in favor of developing countries in the near fu tu re. A f u r t h er noteworthy 4 The members are Be lg ium, D e nm a r k, France, Federal Republic of G e rm a n y, I re land, I ta ly, Lux embou rg, Ne ther- lands, and United K ingdom. development was the establishment of a group which will examine various possibilities for improving the international framework for the conduct of world trade, especially trade between developed and developing countries. Discussions were also initiated in a new subgroup which was established to negotiate possible improvements in government pro- curement practices which might be considered as impeding international trade. In contrast to the early 1970s, when many indus- trialized countries erected mechanisms for preventing d isrup t ive short-term capital inflows, the last few years have witnessed a substantial diminution in the resort to such measures. A few of the industrial coun tr ies, which had ma in ta ined significant controls and restrictions on capital outflows, relaxed some of these res tra in ts du r ing the period under review. Among nonindustrial countries, restrictive policies were tightened in a few cases in respect of inward inves tment and the contracting of fore ign loans, but a number of other countries eased regulations l im i t ing fore ign participation in domestic enterprises. In the commun ique issued at the conclusion of its meeting in Manila, the Philippines, on October 3, 1976, the Development Committee agreed that capital market countries would endeavor, as far as the ir balance of paymen ts position allowed, to move progressively toward greater liberalization of capital movements, in particular capital outflows. In the mean t ime, the capital market countries would afford favorab le t r e a tm ent to developing countries, as among all fo re ign borrowers, with regard to per- mission to make issues. At its mee t ing in Washington in April 1977, the In te r im Committee reviewed a memo randum "Sur- veillance over Exchange Rate Policies" 5 which had been discussed by the Executive Directors of the Fund. Following the exam ina t ion by the Committee, the Executive Directors took the following decision: 1. The Execu t ive Board has discussed the imp lemen ta- t ion of A r t i c le IV of the proposed second am endm ent of the A r t i c l es of Ag r e em ent and has approved the a t tached document en t i t led "Surveillance over Exchange Ra te Poli- cies." The Fund shall act in accordance w i th th is docu- ment when the second am endm ent becomes e f fec t ive. In the period before that da te the Fund shall con t inue to conduct con su l ta t ions in acco rdance w i th present proce- du res and decisions. 5 The text of the m emo r andum "Su rve i l lance over Ex- change R a te Policies" was made pub l ic on Ap r il 29, 1977, and is reproduced in the Append ix to Pa rt I of th is Report. See pages 23-24. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 2. The Fund shall review the document entitled "Surveillance over Exchange Rate Policies" at intervals of two years and at such other times as consideration of it is placed on the agenda of the Executive Board. Decision No. 5392-(77/63) April 29, 7977 During the period under review two countries, the Comoros and Guinea-Bissau, became members of the Fund, bringing the membership to 130 countries. Venezuela accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, raising to 44 the number of members which have formally accepted these obligations. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Imports and Import Payments While the period covered by the Report was marked by an up turn in world trade and by a mod- erate improvement in the balance of payments of many countries, there appears, on balance, to have been a perceptible increase in the reliance on import restrictions by member countries. In addition, as discussed below, there has been fairly significant resort to advance import deposits, import surcharges, and exchange taxes on import payments, ma in ly by nonindustrial countries. On the other hand, some nonindustrial countries which had earlier imposed significant import restrictions were able to liberalize their import regimes. Industrial countries increasingly applied quanti- tative limitations on imports in the form of quotas and licensing procedures, mostly on a selective, ra ther than an across-the-board basis; they also in- creasingly applied an t idump ing duties. These actions of the industrial countries were on the whole induced more often by specific competition and employment problems than by balance of payments pressures. The use of nonquan t i ta t ive import controls by member countries, including at times limitations on the provision of foreign exchange for imports, reflected to a greater degree the response to pro- longed payments pressures. A few developing coun- tries reduced their reliance on mandatory external financing of imports. However, payments arrears continued to arise in several of these countries. a. Quantitative Import Controls Last year's Report noted the increased resort by the industrialized countries to quantitative restric- tions and surveillance licensing of imports dur ing 1975, and indicated that such measures were 6 imposed on a selective basis. In the period under review some of these restrictions were relaxed but, in general, the industrialized countries continued to apply selective import controls mainly for protective purposes. Several member countries of the EEC maintained or introduced new quotas or licensing procedures in accordance w i th EEC directives or decisions, while easing some of the import restraints introduced earlier. The prohibition by the EEC on imports of cattle, beef, and veal from non-EEC ("third") coun- tries, which was introduced in Ju ly 1974, and eased du r ing 1975, was fu r th er liberalized in 1976 by the l i n k i ng of the issuance of licenses for imports of bovine meat to purchases from the EEC's interven- tion stock, by increasing au thor iza t ion of additional imports of beef and veal from specific developing coun tr ies, as well as for f a t t en ing and herd-bu i ld ing purposes, and by a selective reduction of the levy on such imports. However, several EEC countries, among them France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United Kingdom, took a number of measures to restrict imports of textiles and garmen ts f rom specified countries under EEC decisions wh ich au thor ized or prescribed various import control measures. In the case of textiles, such EEC action either followed bilateral agreements with other members of the GATT Arrangement Regarding In terna t ional Trade in Textiles or was based on the general safeguard provisions of the A r rangemen t. The EEC, in add i t ion to some of the ind iv idual indus t r ial countries mentioned above, con t inued to have recourse to restraint agreements with several developing countries in respect of other exports of textiles and footwear. The EEC also authorized ind iv idual member states to exclude f rom Commun i ty t rea tment imports of certain products or ig ina t ing outside the EEC. Toward the end of the period discussions began between the EEC and Japan on the EEC request to Japan to take def in i te action to reduce its trade surplus with the Community. The automobile indus try in Japan stated tha t, according to its estimates, exports to the United Kingdom would not exceed by much those of the previous year. The United Kingdom extended to 1977 quotas on certain clothing imports from Czechoslovakia and the German Democratic Republic and relied on export restraint agreements in respect of specified clothing and footwear imports from several Eastern European countries. The United Kingdom continued to maintain quotas on imports of spun cotton yarn from Spain, and imposed quotas on certain synthetic garments from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES the People's Republic of China as well as on certain television sets f rom the Republic of China. The Federal Republic of Germany, however, increased quotas on imports of selected products f rom the member coun tr ies of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) 6 and f rom the People's Republic of China. Quan t i ta t ive import restrictions were also more preva lent in some of the non-EEC coun tr ies of Europe. Greece prohibited impor ts of f rozen and chilled meat, Iceland introduced surveillance licens- ing for certain items, and Malta introduced specific licensing for a number of products. In February 1977 Portugal applied quotas to certain import items amoun t ing to about 6 per cent of total imports. Restrictions were also t igh tened by No rway (on tex t i les ), Sweden (on textiles and f o o tw e a r ), and Switzerland (on textiles and w i n e s ). No rway, how- ever, e l im ina ted licensing of impor ts of sugar, while Yugoslavia ma in ta ined quo tas at the same level as in the previous year on a wide range of imports. Austria and Kenya ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. Canada ma in ta ined and in some cases increased global and country quotas on imports of certain textiles and garmen ts. A global quota which was applied in the period October 17-December 31, 1976 on imports of beef and veal was removed on Janua ry 1, 1977. In the Un i ted States, the Inter- national Trade Commission investigated several allegations of i n j u ry to domestic producers and dump ing and in some cases of a f f i rma t ive finding, the United States re f ra ined f rom imposing import restrictions, p re fe r r ing the provision of adjustment assistance to the affected industries. However, the United States in June 1976 established quotas over a three-year period on most types of specialty steel, and in October 1976 imposed quotas on imports of beef, veal, and mu t ton, thereby superseding the export restraint agreement reached in March 1976 with ma jor meat expor t ing nations. On Janua ry 1, 1977 the export res tra int agreement was renewed. In March 1976 the United States prohibited imports of certain m ix tures of dried milk and reached agree- ments with Korea and the Republic of China to restrain exports to the United States of canned mushrooms. Japan subjected imports of silk yarn to prior notification and entered into an export 6 Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Po land, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. restraint agreement with Korea in respect of such items. Australia relaxed quota controls introduced in 1975 on certain import items, including motor vehicles, but tightened quan t i ta t ive restrictions on impor ts of footwear, metal files and rasps, and f reeze rs. New Zealand fixed the overall level of basic import license allocations for the fiscal year 1976/77 at the same level as in the previous year, and set the value of licenses for a few selected com- modities at 75 per cent or 50 per cent of their level in the preceding year. South Africa maintained the value of import permits for consumer goods in 1976 at 70 per cent of the previous year's level. The developing countries which liberalized quan t i ta- t ive res tr ic t ions on impor ts included Argentina, Ban- gladesh, Chile, Colombia, India, Mexico, and Pak is tan. In Argen t ina there was a significant reduction in the res tr ic t iveness of the import regime, while in Mexico the l ibera l iza t ion represented a par t ial reversal of the s ign if icant increase in the restrictiveness of the trade system that had occurred in the preceding year. In September 1976, Chile replaced the list of per- mitted imports with a list of prohibited imports consisting of a few items only. On the other hand, there was a greater number of developing countries in troduc ing new or in t en s i fy ing ex is t ing quan t i ta t ive import restrictions. Brazil, which had increased its reliance on import restrictions du r ing 1975, tightened controls on imports by government depart- ments and agencies and suspended impor ts of a large number of items through 1976; these suspensions, f rom which goods or ig ina t ing in member countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) were exempt, were subsequently extended until the end of 1977. In conjunction with a reduc- tion in the ceiling placed on the value of imports in 1976, Jamaica effectively prohibited a wide range of imports in July 1976. Panama established quotas for several import items and imposed restrictions on imports by public sector ins t i tu t ions. Peru introduced a new and more restrictive system of import licens- ing in Janua ry 1977. Some of the oil exporting countries were unable to ma in ta in fu l ly the liberalized import regimes introduced during 1974 and 1975. Iran imposed quantitative controls or prohibitions on imports of certain textiles and subjected addi- tional items to specific licensing, and Iraq reduced the level of its annual import program. Nigeria prohibited or subjected to licensing the import of several products. Other developing countries which tightened import controls included Bolivia, Cam- eroon, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Ivory 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Coast, Kenya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Panama, Sierra Leone, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, and Thailand. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation A few countries relaxed restrictions involving import surcharges. They included Ecuador, which reduced the rate of surcharge on luxu ry imports f rom 60 per cent to 30 per cent; Jo rdan, which abolished its import surcharge; and U ruguay, which exempted additional imports f rom the surcharge of 7 per cent first introduced in December 1975. In general, however, the use of import surcharges was more widespread than in the previous year. Although surcharges were often applied for revenue or protective purposes, there were several countries which imposed surcharges to support other forms of import res t ra int for balance of payments purposes. Bolivia in February 1976 applied a surcharge of 3 per cent to most imports and raised the surtax on luxu ry items, and Brazil extended un t il December 1977 the increases of between 30 per cent and 100 per cent in customs duties applied in late 1975 to a wide range of imports. Ghana imposed a sur- charge of 10 per cent on the value of all import licenses while Indonesia introduced surcharges of 300 per cent and 200 per cent on various iron and steel imports in February 1976 and July 1976, respectively. Pakistan in July 1976 applied a sur- charge of 10 per cent to most imports. In October 1976 Spain introduced a surcharge of 20 per cent on the prevailing rates of customs du t ies; the measure applied to about 40 per cent of imports. In the same month Portugal extended the dura t ion of the import surcharge measures introduced in 1975 until March 1977, and raised the rate of surcharge from 30 per cent to 60 per cent in respect of goods rep- resenting about 1 per cent of imports in 1975, and from 20 per cent to 30 per cent on items represent- ing almost 30 per cent of total imports in 1975. In February 1977, Portugal extended the product coverage of items subject to the surcharge of 60 per cent. Thailand applied a surcharge of 30 per cent on imports of certain textiles and of 15 per cent and 20 per cent on a few other items. Yugoslavia extended un t il the end of 1977 the surcharge of 10 per cent and increased the tax equalization charge on imports from 5 per cent to 6 per cent. Other coun- tries which introduced new or extended existing surcharges were Cameroon, Costa Rica, Israel, Malawi, Mexico, and Panama. A number of countries, among them Argentina, Canada, Chile, and Colombia, reduced ta r i f fs on 8 selected imported items, while coun tr ies ra is ing t a r i f fs on selected commodities included The Gambia, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Yugoslavia. The EEC authorized Ireland to continue certain protective ta r i ff measures for lea ther foo twear. At the begin- n ing of 1976, fu r th er tar iff reductions occurred between the EEC and its new members, and between the EEC and the member coun tr ies of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA ). 7 However, the re was some increase in the use of an t idump ing or coun terva i l ing import du t ies by the Un i ted States and the EEC countries. There were nume rous modifications in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) schemes of the EEC and various ind iv idual developed coun- tries; many of these changes resulted in f u r t h er import du ty concessions on imports from the developing coun tr ies. The change in the GSP scheme of the EEC was to provide greater benefits to developing countries in 1977 than in 1976, w i th the value of impor ts f rom developing coun tr ies accorded p re fe ren t ial t rea tment expected to rise by some 40 per cent. More agricultural imports, in particular those of special interest to the least developed countries, were gran ted p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t, and the value of a wide range of manufactured goods, exc lud ing textiles, foo twear, and some steel products, qua l ify ing for preferential treatment in 1977 was increased. The United States mod if ied the product coverage of its GSP scheme, added Portugal to the list of beneficiary countries, and deleted the Lao People's Democratic Republic f rom the list. Australia reduced t a r i f fs on imports of several items f rom developing countries and extended preferences previously granted only to Commonwealth develop- ing countries to all developing countries. Canada and Finland added ten countries to the list of developing countries eligible to receive preferen t ial treatment under their GSP schemes. Norway increased the product and country coverage of its GSP scheme and extended fu ll du ty - f ree trea tment to all exports of the least developed countries. Switzerland increased the number of countries and commodities to which its GSP scheme is applicable. c. A dvance Import Deposits There was an increase in the use of advance import deposit schemes and only a few countries which had previously introduced advance import deposit requirements were able to reduce their 7 The members are Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES re l iance on such measures. Thus, Finland abolished the import deposit requirement introduced in March 1975. Bolivia reduced the rate of advance import deposits on a w ide range of capital and in te rmed ia te goods and exempted cer ta in other items f rom the deposit requ i remen t. Chile exempted motor vehicles f rom a 10,000 per cent p r ior deposit. In January 1976 Greece re tu rned to the ir p rev ious classification a number of impo rt items which since March 1974 had been subject to an increased deposit require- men t. Korea made a number of mod i f ica t ions to its import deposit scheme resulting on balance in some l ibera l iza t ion. In May 1976 Italy imposed a 90-day, non in teres t- bea r ing depos it r equ i r em ent equal to 50 per cent of the amount of the t ran sac t ion on purchases of fore ign exchange for me rchand ise impor ts, and most o ther transac t ions not a l ready subject to the deposit requ i rement applicable to ou twa rd cap i tal t ran s fe r s. The scheme was ex tended tw ice, fo l low ing wh ich the I ta l ian au tho r i t ies announced that the require- ment would be gradually phased out and would be abolished in Ap r il 1977. In Feb rua ry 1976 New Zealand imposed a non in te res t -bea r ing, six-month deposit requ i rement equal to one th i rd of the value of a range of consumer goods rep resen t ing about 7 per cent of total impor ts. The scheme was to be in e f fect for one year. In Ju ly 1976 the coverage of the scheme was reduced to app rox ima te ly 5 per cent of total impo r ts but subsequen t ly the period of opera- tion of the scheme was ex tended to August 1977. South A f r ica in August 1976 introduced a deposit requ i rement of 20 per cent of f.o.b. va lue applicable to most impor ts, but t e rm in a t ed the scheme in February 1977. Argen t ina requ i red impo r te rs to purchase special bonds in an amount or ig ina l ly equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of a large p ropo r t ion of impor ts. The requ i rement was e l im ina ted in March 1977. The scheme requ i r ing import deposits at the ra te of 40 per cent on ce r ta in goods was broadened in March 1976 but was abolished in November. Brazil ma in ta ined its 100 per cent impo rt deposit scheme introduced at the end of 1975 although certain items were exempted du r ing the year. In July 1976 Braz il in troduced a deposit requ i remen t, at the rate of 100 per cent of the value of the exchange opera t ion, on the con trac t ing of fo rwa rd exchange for a wide range of impor ts. In February 1976 Colombia eliminated its advance import deposit scheme but in October, w i th the objective of accelerating paymen ts and absorbing liquidity, introduced an advance import payment deposit for the issuance of exchange licenses for imports at the rate of 10 per cent of import value; the deposit was later increased to 30 per cent. Indonesia imposed an advance deposit requ irement on imports of certain textiles. In Janua ry 1976 Mauritius required a 25 per cent pr ior payment on all imports. Together with the extension of its import surcharge in October 1976, Portugal introduced a 50 per cent import deposit requ irement on the c.i.f. value of import items representing some 7 per cent of total imports, all of which came within the category of imports subject to the surcharge. Zaire required prior deposits rang ing f rom 20 per cent to 80 per cent of the c . i . f. value of imports and prohibited banks f rom financing importers for the purpose of meeting the deposit requ iremen t. d. Measures Affecting Import Payments Nume rous modifications occurred in regulations gove rn ing import paymen ts. Measures introduced in Argentina resulted in a net liberalization of import paymen ts. These changes included an increase f rom 15 per cent to 75 per cent of the value of imports of noncapital goods which could be financed for terms of less than 180 days, and an increase f rom US$2,000 to US$25,000 in the upper limit on impor ts for which there was no financing require- men t. All m in imum financing requ iremen ts for im- ports of noncapital goods were eliminated in March 1977. As noted earlier, a requ irement to purchase special bonds redeemable at the time of making pay- men ts for imports, with certain exceptions, was in troduced in May 1976 but was subsequently e l im ina ted. Chile reduced f rom 90 or 120 days to a u n i f o rm 30 days, and subsequently eliminated altogether, the wa i t ing period for purchases of fo re ign exchange for imports. Finland raised the m ax imum perm i t ted period of m a tu r i ty for import cred i ts f r om 6 to 12 mon ths in March 1976 but s imu l taneous ly applied a special levy on import credits of a ma tur i ty longer than 6 months. In March 1976, Zambia eliminated the requ irement of endorsement of import licenses by the central bank for payments purposes. Other countries which eased the regulations gove rn ing import paymen ts included Cyprus, Ghana, Kenya, and Malta. Many countries tightened regulations a f fec t ing paymen ts for imports. Belgium and Luxembourg reduced the max imum period for ce r ta in advance paymen ts for impor ts w i thout exchange control approval, tightened regulations on fo rwa rd transac- tions, and in troduced a requ irement of prior exami- 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS nation of supporting documents for payments exceeding BF 50,000 (previously BF 10 m i l l ion ). In September 1976, France reduced the time l im it on all forward foreign exchange purchases for imports f rom three mon ths to two mon ths and on spot cur- rency purchases from one month to 8 days prior to planned use. Italy increased the period for prepay- ment of imports f rom 30 days to 60 days in J anu a ry 1976. Italy also introduced a number of other changes relating to import paymen ts. These measures included, in addition to the deposit requ i rement on fore ign exchange purchases men t ioned earlier, a requ i rement introduced in March 1976 that prepay- ments for imports of goods and services in excess of Lit 2 million be made w i th fo re ign cu r rency bor- rowed f rom au thor ized banks. In October 1976, the period du r ing which fo re ign exchange purchased with lire by importers could be held in newly established fore ign cu r rency accounts was reduced f rom 7 days to 2 days. The Dom in ican Repub l ic announced in September 1976 that official fore ign exchange would no longer be gran ted for impor ts of a number of items. Por tugal imposed l im i ts on domestic f inanc ing by commercial banks of ce r ta in impor ts. In March 1976 South A f r ica p roh ib i ted advance paymen ts for imports except by special permission. Za ire made nume rous mod i f ica t ions to i ts import payment regu la t ions, in i t ia l ly t end ing to liberalize the system but, toward the end of the period the degree of res t r ic t iveness was again increased. O ther countries which t igh tened regula- t ions govern ing import paymen ts included E th iop ia, Indonesia, Peru, Sierra Leone, and Tu rkey. A r rea rs on cu r rent paymen ts in respect of impo r ts developed or increased du r ing the period in the Dom in ican Republic, Egypt, Sierra Leone, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia. e. State Trading Coun tr ies which ex tended state t r a d i ng ac t iv i t ies du r ing the period und er rev iew inc luded Ben in, Ivory Coast, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, the Ph i l ipp ines, and Saudi Arab ia. Japan ex tended u n t il f u r t h er notice the monopoly g ran ted to an off ic ial agency w i th respect to impo r ts of raw silk. The Lao People's Democratic Republic established a s ta te t r ad ing corporation to hand le most ex te rnal t rade transac t ions. A number of these countries have for some t ime reserved for state en t i t ies the responsibility for certain import as well as export t ran sac t ion s. 10 2. Exports and Export Proceeds Du r ing the period und er rev iew expo rt policies in m any coun tr ies, both developed and developing, invo lved con t inued e f fo r ts to adapt ex i s t ing export mechan isms in o rder to encourage export growth. These policies covered increased s t imu lus to export by way of special tax in c en t iv es and rebates or occasionally th rough the use of subs id ies, as well as the p rov is ion of p re fe ren t ial financing fac i l i t ies. There were s igns that some of the indus t r ia l ized coun t r i e s, in order to lessen compe t i t ion in th is area, were mov ing toward a more coordinated approach on the terms on wh ich financing for exports is p rov ided. Measures invo lv ing q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i ta- t ions on exports were generally adopted for domestic supp ly or pr ice pu rposes and were con f ined to a few im p o r t a nt commod i t i e s. The p rev ious section repor ted the increased recourse to expo rt restraint ag reemen ts. As part of a p rog ram to s im p l i fy its exchange and t r ade sys tem, A rg en t ina t e rm in a t ed p roh ib i t ions on expo r ts of a large numb er of ag r i cu l tu r al and manu- f a c t u r ed p roduc ts; in a few cases the p roh ib i t ions were replaced by t empo r a ry expo rt quo tas. Export p r o h i b i t i o ns on spec i f ied commod i t ies were also l if ted in Greece, P a k i s t a n, and U ruguay, wh i le export l i c e n s i ng r e q u i r em e n t s, u su a l ly a f f e c t i ng a few speci- f ied i t em s, were eased in Bang ladesh, Singapore, and Spa in. In October 1976 the U.S. Pres iden t, through an Execu t ive O rde r, m a i n t a i n ed in e f fect the export control r egu l a t ions u n d er the Expo rt Adm in i s t ra t ion Act of 1969, wh ich exp ired on September 30, 1976. Coun t r i es wh ich t igh t en ed q u a n t i t a t i ve export restric- t ions or applied l i c en s ing to specified exports in- cluded Braz i l, Gua tema la, Ind ia, the Libyan Arab R epub l i c, Mex ico, and N ig e r i a. In the area of fiscal i n c e n t i v es for exports, A r g e n t i na early in 1976 lowered export du t ies and sub s id ies on an across-the-board basis, and in some cases e l im in a t ed them, but toward the end of the year th ey we re ra ised aga in on a n um b er of items. Expo rt taxes we re also lowered on specified com- mod i t ies in Ind ia, Indones ia, Malaysia, and Niger. Costa R ica in t rodu c ed a cash bonus for exports in add i t ion to its ex i s t ing tax rebate scheme. Israel on several occasions raised the ind i rect tax rebates app l icab le to expor ts of goods and cer ta in services, and in Peru tax concessions were in troduced or expanded for non t rad i t ional exports. Other forms of tax concessions for expor ters were improved in Brazil, N icaragua, and New Zealand. New Zea- land also announced the extension un t il 1980 of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES existing incentives for exporters. In Ind ia, some existing cash subsidies for exports were extended un t il March 1979. In Mexico, ind i rect tax rebates on manufactured exports were suspended and ad valorem export taxes on pr imary products and manufactures were increased. The export taxes were later eliminated but the tax rebates, in general, remained suspended. Export taxes and duties on specified commodities were also increased in India, the Netherlands, Panama, Peru, and T r in idad and Tobago. A number of countries sought to improve export performance through various measures affecting their systems of export financing facilities, export insur- ance, and guarantees. On the financing side, these measures included the creation of new or supple- men tary financing mechan isms, an expansion of existing credit fac i l i t ies for exporters, or the easing of the terms on which export credits are made avail- able. Add i t ional amoun ts specifically earmarked for the f u n d i ng of export credits were made available in Austria, Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. France took steps to ease the ex is t ing export pro- cedures for small and medium-sized firms. Brazil improved the ex is t ing program of export incentives, which provided facilities for the financing of wo rk ing capital requ iremen ts d irec t ly for manu fac tu re rs of export-oriented goods as well as for firms engaged in selling these products. Colombia widened access to a special fund created to assist in the financing of exports to the Andean Pact, and authorized, through a special line of credit, financing of the working capital requ iremen ts of enterprises produc ing, stor- ing, and marke t ing ma jor traditional exports. In Jamaica, exporters were granted special financing to assist in the purchase of local raw materials. Spain established a new buyers' credit f u nd to assist in financing foreign purchases of Spanish goods. Early in 1977, Malaysia established a facility under the general direction of the Central Bank to redis- count exporters' bills at a preferential interest rate. Other countries which improved export financing facilities included Chile, Denmark, India, and Switzerland. In June 1976, several of the industrialized coun- tries agreed to coordinate na t ional regulations relating to export financing as a means of har- monizing conditions and increasing cooperation between exporting countries. Under the terms of the arrangement, and for an initial period of one year, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States made unilateral declarations establishing (1) minimum downpayments on export credits equivalent to 15 per cent of the contract; (2) maximum maturities of credits of ten years for "poor countries," eight and a half years for "in- termediate countries" and five years for "rich coun- tries"; and (3) minimum interest rates ranging f rom 11A per cent to 8 per cent, depending on the ma tu r i ty of the contract and the classification of the impo r t ing coun t ry. Adherence to these conditions would generally involve a tightening of export credit terms in those countries. In March 1977 the EEC reached agreement to standardize export credit facilities in their member countries by applying the same interest rates and repayment periods for credits granted to foreign countries purchasing their exports. In a few other countries, such as Austria, Indones ia, and Switzerland, interest ra tes for export credit financing were lowered. Italy and the Un i ted Kingdom adopted measures to encourage the use of foreign currencies in export financing. In Italy banks were instructed early in 1976 not to grant financing of export credits through the use of lira deposits with branches of the Bank of Italy in con- nection with their dollar swaps with the Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi. Fur thermore, export credits of up to 120 days could be granted only if the exporter could secure fo re ign financing of at least 30 per cent of the export credit and with a ma tu r i ty equal to the period of the deferred payment. The United Kingdom announced several measures in February 1977 aimed at encouraging exporters to switch from sterling to foreign currency financing of export credits. The Export Credits Guarantee Department indicated that it would no longer make available guaranteed sterling finance for contracts requiring the support of non-U.K. concerns and that it would underwrite large project credits only if they were financed in foreign currencies. In the area of government guarantees and insur- ance on export credits, the ceilings on amounts of guarantees that could be issued were raised consid- erably in Austria, Norway, and Sweden. In order to adjust the coverage of export credit risks with other EEC countries, the Federal Republic of Germany reduced the banks' share in political risks and commercial risks for insurance contracts asso- ciated with suppliers' credits and tied buyers' credits. Indonesia extended export credit insurance and guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises. Malaysia instituted an export guarantee system in January 1977. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Sweden in troduced an exchange rate gua ran tee scheme under the adm in i s t ra t ion of the Export Credit Gua ran tee Board which came in to e f fect in m id-1976; it was designed to prov ide cover for pos- sible losses incu r red in the se t t lement of exports in fore ign currenc ies. The export guarantee system in the United Kingdom was enlarged to cover losses in the forward market related to de fau lt on buyers' credits. Regulations a f fec t ing the surrender of export pro- ceeds were liberalized in Argentina and the Philippines but they were tightened in Sierra Leone and South Africa. 3. Cu r rent Invisibles With the exception of Italy, none of the ma jor industrial countries applied restrictions on current invisible paymen ts du r ing the period under review. Restrictions on various types of invisible payments were liberalized in several countries which in the previous year had imposed wide-ranging measures to limit the availability of foreign exchange. Several countries eased restrictions on the provision of foreign exchange for travel, the t rans fer of income abroad, and in some cases for personal remittances, although such measures were often designed only to maintain the real value of exchange allocations. There were a number of other countries (mainly developing coun t r ies ), however, in which serious payments difficulties resulted in the imposition of stringent new restrictions, or the in tens if ica t ion of existing restrictions on invisibles. In Italy, payments for invisibles were severely affected by the noninterest-bearing deposit require- ment on purchases of foreign exchange mentioned earlier, and by a tax applied to purchases of foreign exchange. The exchange tax was not applied to the first Lit 100,000 of the standard travel exchange allocation of Lit 500,000. Japan, however, doubled the basic exchange allocation for travel abroad. Among nonindustrial countries, the basic travel allocations were also increased in A fghan i s tan, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Cyprus, and Egypt, while the allocations for business travel were increased in Tu rkey and Peru. Regulations a f fec t ing the purchase of exchange for travel were tightened in Brazil, which also introduced a non in teres t- bearing deposit requ i rement on the issuance of pass- ports and exit visas, and made the pu rchase of exchange for travel conditional upon payment of the deposit. In Guyana, the exchange allocation for tourist travel, which had been suspended du r ing January 1974-October 1975, was w i thd rawn again 12 in December 1976. As part of a series of restrictive actions Israel (ear ly in 1976) and Jamaica (du r ing the la t ter part of the per iod) t igh tened restrictions on exchange for t rave l. O ther countries reducing exchange allocations for t ravel inc luded Portugal and Za i re, wh i le Uganda suspended allocations in March 1977. Travel taxes were also introduced, or increased, in Chile, Israel, New Zealand, and Peru, while Israel, in February 1976 also imposed a sur- charge of 15 per cent on purchases of foreign exchange for var ious invisible paymen ts, including exchange for travel. In February 1977 Ghana imposed a levy of 10 per cent on exchange alloca- tions for travel. A number of countries eased restrictions on the rem i t tance of income abroad, including the transfer of profits and dividends. In February 1977 A rgen t ina allowed the remittance of profits abroad; previously, profits acc ru ing to nonresidents had to be converted in to negotiable, five-year U.S. dollar denom ina ted bonds issued by the Government. Chile simplified the rules governing profit remittances abroad, and Lesotho liberalized the regulations gov- e rn ing the t r an s f er of salaries earned by temporary residents. Zamb ia, wh ich had severely limited in- come rem i t tances in 1975, liberalized these restric- tions in J anu a ry 1977 by p e rm i t t ing a higher propor- tion of invested capital or a f te r - tax income to be remitted abroad. L im i ts on rem i t tances abroad for education purposes were increased in Argentina, Chile, Malta, Pak is tan, and Peru. On the other hand, Jamaica in Janua ry 1977 suspended or restricted the ava i lab i l i ty of fore ign exchange for a wide range of inv is ib le paymen ts inc lud ing rem i t tances of income, d iv idends and in te res t, as well as paymen ts for royalties, t radema rks, and other commissions and fees. The Ph i l ipp ines in t roduced a requ i rement that rem i t tances of prof i ts and d iv idends in respect of fore ign-owned corpora te shares could be made only when the shares were d irec t ly fund ed by inward rem i t tances of fo re ign exchange. O ther countries which imposed new or t igh tened ex i s t ing restrictions or regulations a f fec t ing rem i t tances of specified types of income included Bang ladesh, N iger ia, Sierra Leone, Tanzan ia, and Zaire. South Africa tightened the superv is ion over t r a n s f e rs abroad in respect of f am i ly m a in t en an c e, g i f t, and s tudy allowances. Several coun t r ies changed the regu la t ions gov- e rn ing the export and impo rt of domestic bankno tes by trave lers. A f g h a n i s t a n, Japan, Korea, and Yugo- slavia increased the amoun ts wh ich could be taken out by travelers in domestic currency, while Afghan i- stan and Korea also raised the amoun ts of domestic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES currency which could be brought into the country. Bangladesh and Israel liberalized the rules governing the amounts that foreign tourists were permitted to reconvert in to fore ign currency when leaving the country. Arrears in respect of interest paymen ts on external debt which arose in Sierra Leone du r ing 1975 con- tinued to accumulate du r ing the period under review, while delays developed on the t r an s f er of dividends in Madagascar. Under regulations implemented in Jamaica in J anu a ry 1977, interest payments on foreign deb t, wh ich previously were payable when they accrued, became payable in the quarter follow- ing that in which they accrued. 4. Multiple Currency Practices No new dual exchange ma rke ts were established du r ing the period und er rev iew, while a few countries ma in ta in ing dual exchange rate systems made prog- ress towa rd the un i f ica t ion of the ir systems. Fre- quent and substantial changes took place in the exchange rate system of Argen t ina, which by late 1976 had resulted in the v i r tual un i f ica t ion of exchange rates. In March 1976, the f inanc ial and special f inanc ial ma rke ts were eliminated and replaced by a single f r ee ma rket and a new official market. In April 1976, var ious m ix ing rates went into effect for all t rade and trade-related transac- tions; transfers of profits and dividends continued to be made under special arrangements through the purchase of do l lar-denom ina ted bonds at effec t ive rates which were close to the f ree market rates, and transactions related to travel and tourism were effec ted at the f ree ma rket ra te. In successive steps du r ing the year, the m ix ing rates for export, import, and invisible transac t ions we re depreciated and in November the exchange ma rke ts were un if ied at the free market exchange rate, with the sole exception of transac t ions relating to fo re ign loans covered by forward ( swap) operations, approved and guar- anteed by the Central Bank to which a separate exchange ra te con t inued to apply. During the period under review Egypt continued to depreciate the Egyptian pound in the parallel market and aga in expanded the scope of th is ma rket by t rans fe r r ing to it a number of imports payable in convertible currenc ies. In November 1976 a number of res t r ic t ions on the use and re ten t ion of foreign exchange were eliminated, thereby perm i t t ing private sector entities to e f fect a range of transac t ions at privately negotiated exchange rates. In Ecuador, which has maintained a dual exchange market since 1971, the authorities intervened for a time to reduce the spread between the exchange rates in the free and official markets. Exchange rates in the dual exchange markets of Iran, Peru, and the Syrian Arab Republic remained effectively un if ied. There were no significant changes in the dual market systems in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU ), Paraguay, and Uruguay. Among the countries which modified their multiple exchange rate systems, Afghanistan, in Janua ry 1976 allowed the commercial banks to set their exchange rates freely, rather than at the free market rates quoted by the central bank, which also discontinued its practice of following the bazaar market rate in establishing its f ree market rates. Later in the year, in the face of continued upwa rd pressure on the Afghani in the bazaar market, the central bank acted to diminish the differentials between rates in that market and those established by the central bank. Brazil increased substantially the exchange taxes on proceeds f rom coffee exports, reflecting the sharply rising trend in world coffee prices throughout the period under review, but in other respects did not change its multiple exchange ra te arrangemen ts. In Colombia the special exchange rate for petroleum t ransac t ions was abolished in May 1976 and pur- chases of petroleum for domestic consumption were hencefor th made at the prevailing rate of exchange in the certificate ma rke t. In Janua ry 1977 the rates of the tax credit certificates were modified for a large number of industrial and agricultural export items. Nepal modified its multiple exchange ra te arrange- ments by changing the permissible ratios and cate- gories of goods which can be imported by holders of export en t i t lemen ts under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. A number of countries, some of which had been f r ee of multiple cu r rency practices, introduced measures giving rise to additional effec t ive exchange ra tes. Among them was Italy, which introduced two measures involving multiple currency practices, both of which have already been dealt with briefly. In May 1976, a 90-day non in te res t -bea r ing deposit requirement was introduced on purchases of foreign exchange and the crediting of any kind of non- res ident lira accounts. The deposit was equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the transaction. A number of transac t ions were exempted f rom the deposit requ i remen t, and add i t ional exemptions were announced in June 1976. The deposit requirement was originally adopted for a period of three months but was subsequently extended on two occasions. The second extension, which was announced in September 1976, provided for the phasing out of the 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS measure by April 15, 1977. In accordance with the announced schedule, the deposit requirement was reduced to 25 per cent on January 15, 1977, and a further reduction to 10 per cent took place on February 28, 1977. On October 4, 1976, the Italian authorities introduced a tax at a rate of 10 per cent, and for a period of 15 days, on all purchases of foreign exchange for current transactions. The tax was eliminated on October 18. On October 25, however, a new tax of 7 per cent was imposed, for a period of up to four months, on purchases of foreign exchange for most current transactions. This tax was reduced to 3.5 per cent on December 27, when it was announced that it would be gradually lowered by one half of a percentage point each week, commencing January 3, 1977. The tax was elimi- nated on February 13, 1977. Among the nonindustrial countries, Burma in September 1976 established an export price equali- zation fund into which were paid receipts derived f rom taxes applied to the surplus of export earnings over domestic costs of exports, and from which were financed any losses incurred on unprofitable exports. These measures gave rise to a new multiple currency practice. In February 1976, Israel introduced a sur- charge on purchases of foreign exchange for travel and certain other invisibles, thereby introducing a multiple currency practice. In Ghana, the applica- tion of a 10 per cent levy on travel exchange alloca- tions involved a new multiple currency practice. Effec t ive January 1, 1977, a new multiple currency practice arose in Indonesia as a result of new measures affec t ing exchange for imports. These measures included a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement for specified imports, payable in advance at the time of the opening of the letter of credit. In addition, the Government imposed a financial guarantee amounting to 100 per cent of the value of the letter of credit for the same imports, to be paid by the importer at the time of the opening of the letter of credit, and thereafter to be blocked until the goods were cleared through customs. Moreover, the Government introduced a requirement for the advance payment of import duties calculated on the value of and payable at the time of the open- ing of the letter of credit. Turkey introduced a more depreciated exchange rate for the foreign exchange proceeds of workers' remittances. The effective premium in the investment currency market in the United Kingdom remained at levels generally lower than those of the previous year; supervision was tightened over transactions involving investment currency and foreign currency securities, 14 but there were no major changes in the rules gov- erning access to the investment currency market. At the beginning of 1976, South Africa replaced its blocked rand system with a system of freely negotiable securities rand. 5. Bilateral Payments Arrangements During the period under review fu r ther progress was achieved in the elimination of bilateral payments arrangements maintained by member countries with other Fund members and with nonmember coun- tries, although the number of agreements terminated was appreciably less than that noted in last year's Report. Eleven arrangements between member countries were terminated. Egypt made a further significant reduction in its reliance on bilateralism and abolished eight agreements with members (those with Algeria, Guinea, India, Morocco, Romania, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Tu rkey ). In addition, the arrangements between Afghanistan and Yugoslavia, Algeria and Romania, and India and the Sudan expired. With the ratification of the 1975 trade agreement between Brazil and Greece, settlements between the two countries were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. Ten bilateral payments arrangements between members and nonmembers were terminated. Two arrangements were eliminated by Egypt (those with Albania and Bulgaria), by Sri Lanka (with Bulgaria and North Ko rea ), and by Bolivia (with Hungary and Po land). Cyprus and Iceland eliminated their agree- ments with the U.S.S.R., as did Mexico its agreement with Poland. The agreement between Guinea and the German Democratic Republic was also abolished. Approximately 50 operative bilateral payments agreements are still maintained between members, of which the Fund has found that 5 involve bilateral payments fea tures for one party only. The overall total would be lower had it not been necessary to reclassify, as agreements with a member country, a number of existing bilateral payments arrangements with North Viet-Nam now maintained by the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. Some 6 agreements between members are regarded as inoperative. The number of payments arrangements between mem- bers and nonmembers has now fallen to about 145. 6. Capital Flows Measures taken by the industrialized countries to affect capital movements did not in general signify any fundamental change in policies on capital in- flows or outflows. A number of European countries in this group continued to permit and encourage ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES large-scale borrowing abroad by the public sector. Perhaps the most noteworthy feature was the ten- dency among the industrialized countries to apply control and surveillance procedures in respect of short-term capital flows through banks and non- banks, as a means of monitoring more effectively and where necessary mitigating the effects of these flows on exchange rates. With the notable exception of Switzerland, policies governing inward movements of medium-term and long-term capital generally remained liberal and, in the case of several European countries, provided for fu r ther relaxations of con- trols on inward direct investment and foreign non- banks' deposits with the domestic banking system. Japan was the only industrialized country which took steps to ease restrictions on capital outflows, primarily by liberalizing foreign access to the domestic bond market. In January 1977, the Euro- pean Commission withdrew proposals forwarded to the Council in 1964 which foresaw a mutual open- ing up of the partner countries' capital markets to foreign issuers and the partial liberalization of financial credits. More restrictive capital control measures of a specialized character were applied in Italy and the United Kingdom, reflecting the severity and the protracted nature of payments problems in these countries. In Switzerland, on the other hand, numerous steps were taken to contain capital in- flows as a means of lessening recurrent upward pres- sures on the Swiss franc. Among the industrialized countries of Europe other than Switzerland, controls on capital inflows through the banking system were eased in Denmark, where the ceiling on nonresidents' deposits was raised from DKr 75,000 to DKr 200,000 with effect from January 1977. In January 1977, the Nether- lands restored to the commercial banks permission to pay interest on nonresidents' sight deposits in domestic currency, and revoked the prohibition on the establishment by nonresidents of guilder time and savings deposits. On the other hand, in order to reduce speculation in foreign exchange, banks in the BLEU were required, in April 1976, to limit their forward sales of foreign exchange in the official market with terms of less than 15 days to transac- tions where documentation was submitted sub- stantiating the need for the respective payment abroad. In France, authorized banks (as well as nonbanks) were required to convert their foreign exchange receipts into local currency within eight days; previously conversion was required within one month. In August 1976 banks in the Federal Republic of Germany became subject to a reporting requirement to the Bundesbank in respect of foreign loan commitments. Regulations governing capital inflows through non- banks were relaxed in Austria, which lifted the restrictions imposed in 1972 on inward direct invest- ment and on inward portfolio investment in quoted and unquoted securities. In addition, all restrictions on inward commercial short-term credits were abolished and restrictions on medium-term credits (one to five years) were limited to those related to the importation of consumer goods. Furthermore, restrictions on nonresidents' purchases of Austrian real estate for personal use were liberalized as of January 1, 1977. With respect to restraints on capital outflows, the Netherlands temporarily sus- pended access by nonresident borrowers to the domestic private placement market in May 1976, but revoked that measure in January 1977, permitting foreign borrowing up to f. 75 million for each place- ment, provided that the loans had a maturity of ten years or more, with repayments to take place in at least five equal installments. Regulations governing capital outflows, including controls on outward direct investment were modified in France. The amount of direct investment French residents could undertake abroad without prior authorization was raised from F 1 million to F 3 million. At the same time residents holding direct investments abroad became subject to a requirement to submit to the Treasury, on an annual basis, balance sheet data on foreign subsid- iaries or branches. Moreover, shares in foreign com- panies acquired by French residents had to be repatriated or deposited abroad with a French bank. Nonresidents wishing to repatriate proceeds amount- ing to F 1 million or more from liquidated direct investment in a French company were required to submit documents to the Bank of France justifying the transfer. Furthermore, in September 1976 the limit applied on the purchase abroad by residents of a main and a second personal residence was reduced f rom F 300,000 to F 150,000. On the other hand, Norway and Sweden increased the ceilings on the amounts which could be transferred for the pur- chase of recreational real estate abroad for personal use. Italy took far-reaching measures designed to alle- viate the country's foreign exchange problems. To enhance the conversion of residents' foreign exchange holdings into lira accounts, the retention period of foreign currency in Ordinary Foreign Currency Accounts was reduced in February 1976 from an average of 45 days to 15 days and to 7 days in May 1976. As a complementary measure, autho- 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rized banks were fo rb idden w i thout prior authori- zation to cred it nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts with fore ign bankno tes and cred it ins t ru- ments expressed in foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Lit 10 million a calendar year, unless such bankno tes or credit ins trumen ts were remitted to the b anks d irect f rom abroad. In October 1976, the ceiling on banks' fo rwa rd opera t ions in fo re ign exchange was reduced by 50 per cent. Illegal exports of cap i tal were made subject to severe penalties in March 1976. An amnes ty was granted for the repa- tr ia t ion of illegally exported capital; it was subse- quently extended on two occasions. As mentioned earlier in the section on Advance Import Deposits, purchases of fo re ign exchange were sub ject for much of the period under rev iew to a non in te re s t -bea r ing deposit requ i rement of 50 per cen t, and a tax on fo re ign exchange purchases was in e f fect f rom October 1976 to February 1977. With minor excep- tions, capital exports remained subject throughout to the 50 per cent deposit requ i rement imposed in 1973. In the Un i ted Kingdom, measures a f f e c t i ng capi- tal movemen ts were p r ima r i ly aimed at reduc ing the use of sterling in the financing of th ird coun t ry trade. Banks had previously been permitted to provide sterling finance for trade either between two Over- seas Sterling Area (OSA) coun tr ies or between one OSA coun try and a th ird coun try. In August 1976 they were obliged to l im it their a r rangemen ts for sterling finance in respect of such transac t ions to cases where satisfactory documen ta t ion had been submitted that such finance related to current move- ments of goods and that the period of credit did not exceed 180 days. From November 1976 banks were no longer permitted to provide sterling finance for any trade to which the Scheduled Territories ( the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, G ibra l tar, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man) were not a party. In April 1976 certain foreign currency secu- rities and private property abroad, acquired by U.K. residents without recourse to the investment currency ma rke t, ceased in some circumstances to be eligible for sale with the benefit of the inves tment currency p rem ium. Switzerland took nume rous measures which rep- resented a continuing effort to ensure that volatile and disruptive inflows of short-term capital did not exert excessive pressure on the Swiss franc. This objective was rendered particularly d i f f icu lt in a period in which assets denominated in Swiss f rancs gained additional attractiveness through the weaken- ing of some other important currencies. The Swiss 16 au tho r i t ies relied on a var ie ty of direct and indirect controls to in f luence the inf low of capital via the b a n k i ng system. M i n im um reserve requirements on banks' liabilities to nonresidents were increased for a three-mon th period around mid-1976, and fur ther l im i t a t i o ns were placed on interest paymen ts on non- residents' sav ings deposits denom ina ted in Swiss f r a n c s. Forward exchange regu la t ions were tightened to reduce specu la t ive t ran sac t ions in Swiss f rancs by lowe r ing the banks' ma rg in for fo rwa rd sales at given ma tu r i t ie s. Under a newly concluded gentlemen's agreement between the Swiss National Bank and the commercial bank s, the latter agreed to instruct their b ranches and subs id iar ies abroad to re f ra in f rom specu la t ive t r an s a c t ion s, and wa ived the r ight to e f fect Euro-Swiss f r a nc depos i ts or d i rect placements in Swiss f r a n cs for the account of or in the name of these subs id ia r ies or branches. Subs tan t ia l ly enlarged reporting requ i remen ts were introduced in respect of banks' foreign assets and liabilities positions, both spot and f o rw a r d. Measures a f f e c t ing ou twa rd move- men ts of cap i tal eased ex i s t ing res t r ic t ions on access to the Swiss cap i tal m a r k e t; these measures included pe rm i s s ion for i n t e r n a t i o n al a id in s t i tu t ions to issue in Switzerland med ium - te rm notes denom ina ted in Swiss francs, and an increase in the ceiling on public issues by fore ign borrowers denominated in Swiss f r an c s. Res t r ic t ions on the acqu is i t ion of Swiss real es ta te by fo re igne rs were in ten s i f ied in November 1976. In Japan changes in policies a f f e c t i ng capital movemen ts were generally designed to liberalize existing controls and restrictions on outflows; some steps were t ak en, on the other hand, to affect capital flows ind irec t ly through banks. The Finance Min- is try's in s t ru c t ion to commercial banks to r e f r a in f rom f inanc ing nonu rg ent inve s tment projects abroad was revoked in September 1976, and res tr ic t ions on med ium - te rm and long-term loans in fore ign cur- rency granted by Japanese banks to overseas bor- rowers, imposed in 1974, were eased; however, approval was required for such lend ing. In Janu- ary 1976 fo re ign b anks ope ra t ing in Japan were permitted to increase the ou t s tand ing amount of the ir conversions of foreign cu r rency in to yen. In April 1976 Japanese b anks were in fo rmed that they should concen tra te the ir activities abroad on provid- ing financial and related services. In November 1976 the Bank of Japan was empowered to impose reserve requ i remen ts on fo re ign exchange banks' liabilities in fore ign currenc ies to non res iden ts and on resi- den ts' foreign currency deposits w i th such banks. Completion of the l ibera l iza t ion of inward direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES investment was announced in May 1976 when con- trols still a f fec t ing several rema in ing indus t r ial sec- tors were removed. Hencefor th, 100 per cent foreign owne rsh ip would be perm i t ted in all sectors, with the exception of a few specified indus tr ies. The ceiling on residents' holdings in fo re ign exchange accounts was doubled f rom US$10,000 to US$20,000 in June 1976. The open ing of new fo re ign exchange accounts by res iden ts, which had been prohibited since 1974, was aga in pe rm i t ted. Residents' pur- chases and sales of un l is ted securities on overseas ma rke ts were l ibera l ized, and f rom October 1976 access of foreign borrowers to the Japanese capital ma rket was granted more f r e q u e n t l y. Among the non indus t r ia l ized countries there were few clearly iden t if iab le t rends in capital controls. Although a number of these coun tr ies applied restric- tive policies toward fo re ign acquisition of domestic resources and en te rp r ises, others, inc lud ing several developing coun t r ies, prov ided easier access to in- ward fo re ign inves tmen t. On the other h and, the con trac t ion of fo re ign financial loan obligations was restricted in a number of developing countries. Countries wh ich removed or relaxed controls on capital inf lows th rough the b a n k i ng system included Ireland, where the Cen tral Bank in May 1976 waived the regu la t ion requ i r ing Irish commercial banks to deposit w i th it 50 per cent of any net capital inf lows, and Peru wh ich e l im ina ted the regu la t ion res tr ic t ing the net fo re ign exchange position of commerc ial banks. Colombia on the o ther h and increased the legal reserve requ i rement on fo re ign cu r rency de- posits and es tab l ished an average and a marg inal reserve r equ i r em ent on specified fo re ign exchange l iab i l i t ies of banks. Au thor ized banks in F i ji were required to obtain prior authorization f rom the Cen- tral Monetary Au tho r i ty for the conversion of for- eign cu r rency in to F i j ian cu r rency above a certain amount, and for the c red i t ing of ex ternal accounts with F i j ian cu r r en cy emana t ing f r om ano ther exter- nal account. The free swap balances of domestic branches of fo re ign banks in Korea were f rozen at the level registered in Ju ly 1976. Foreign bank ing was encouraged in Tunisia and the Un i ted A rab Emirates where the es tab l ishment of o f fsho re fore ign banks and financial ins t i tu t ions was authorized and in Kuwa it and Jordan which perm i t ted fo re ign bank- ing operations on a limited scale. Bahra in and the Philippines took measures to establish o f fsho re bank ing systems w i th the aim of deve lop ing regional financial centers. A number of non indus t r ia l ized countries took measures to encourage d irect inves tment inflows f rom abroad. In Argentina, a new foreign invest- ment law provided for a widening of the scope for fore ign inves tmen t, a reduction of taxes on profit and dividend remittances, and an easing of limita- tions on repatriation of capital. In the early part of 1976 Aus tra l ia modified its policies to encourage inward direct investment, including a modification of the requ iremen ts for investment in minerals, but stipulated a m in imum of 75 per cent Australian equ i ty in u ran ium projects not yet in production. Chile eased restrictions on inward investment, fol- lowing its w i thd rawal from the Andean Pact. Fin- land in November 1976 raised the limit on foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion in the share capital of Finnish holding companies f rom 20 per cent to 40 per cent. Israel and Jo rdan announced new tax benef i ts to foreign investors, wh i le guaran tees against nationalization of fo re ign inves tmen ts were granted in Pakistan and Tha i land. Spain au thor ized foreign investment in excess of Ptas 100 million, if it generated certain new emp loyment opportunities and did not involve paymen ts for the purchase of fo re ign technology. Countries which introduced measures to limit or pre- clude non res ident investment in selected domestic indus t r ies included Ecuador, Ghana, and Iran. Abu Dhab i, Indonesia, and Nigeria lowered the ceiling on fore ign par t ic ipa t ion in domestic enterprises, and fore ign inves tmen ts in certain key na tural re- sources were na t iona l ized in Abu Dhabi, Qatar, and Venezuela. In a number of countries controls were tightened on fo re ign borrow ing by residents. In Janua ry 1977 Aus t ra l ia ex tended the ex is t ing embargo on foreign borrow ing of less than six months' ma tu r i ty to bor- row ings of less than two years. For foreign borrow ing abroad with ma tur i t ies of two years or more Aus- t ra l ia re in troduced a non in te res t -bea r ing deposit re- qu i r em ent equal to 25 per cent of the value of the borrowing, re fundab le a f t er a m ax imum period of th ree years. Overseas borrowings for capital inves t- ments in the mining and manu fac tu r ing sectors were exempt f rom the bo r row ing requ i remen t. Colombia p roh ib i ted the t a k i ng up of fo re ign loans for invest- men ts in b ank ing and insu rance. I ran generally t igh tened its ex is t ing controls on fo re ign borrowing. Korea banned without special permission the con- t r a c t ing of fo re ign currency loans except to finance ce r ta in imports. Yugoslavia imposed a non in teres t- bea r ing d in ar deposit of 75 per cent for some credits con trac ted abroad connected w i th jo int ven tures. Measures to liberalize capital outflows were taken in Singapore whe re three additional countries were included in the list of Scheduled Territories and the 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS restrictions on investment in foreign currency de- posits and securities, and in properties outside the Scheduled Territories were eased. Venezuela opened its domestic capital market to foreign public orga- nizations in September 1976, granting them permis- sion to float bond issues denominated either in foreign currencies or in bolivares, subject to prior authorization. Restrictions on the t rans fer of per- sonal assets were eased in Malta, where the emigra- tion allowance was increased and personal invest- ments abroad were liberalized. A t igh ten ing of controls occurred in Jamaica, which reduced the ceiling on capital remittances for emigrants; in early 1977, Jamaica banned such transfers altogether. 7. Gold Movements Several countries introduced new regulations affecting the export and import of gold, as well as dealings in and domestic holdings of gold. Australia in January 1976 removed all Commonwealth restric- tions on the owning, buying, and selling of gold bullion and gold coins by residents. Australian resi- dents were henceforth f ree to export or import gold subject to normal exchange control and customs requ iremen ts. In Chile regulations which restricted the buy ing and selling of gold to the Central Bank and au thor ized banks were abolished and ind iv idua ls became f ree to transact in gold. Exports and imports of gold became subject to normal trade regulations. Egypt permitted au thor ized banks to purchase or hold abroad gold and other precious metals for the account of residents entitled to ma in ta in Free Ac- counts. Portugal, however, revoked the permission of private exchange houses to deal in gold. The Federal Republic of Germany introduced regulations under which gold coins which were not legal tender in the country of issue became subject to the value- added tax, while Italy reduced from 12 per cent to zero the value-added tax on the import of refined gold. A number of countries, including Austria, the Netherlands Antilles, Seychelles, and Surinam, issued commemora t ive gold coins that were legal tender. III. Regional Arrangements During the period under review there were impor- tant developments affec t ing economic relations be- tween the EEC and certain developing countries of A f r ica, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region ( the ACP coun tr ies) 8 under the Lome Convention, 8 The or ig inal ACP coun t r ies were Bahamas, Barbados, Ben in, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Equatorial 18 and a fu r ther advance toward implementation of the Community's overall Mediterranean approach. Prog- ress was made in concluding agreements between the EEC and a number of other non-EEC countries. At the beg inn ing of 1976, the Lome Convention had been ratified by 7 members of the Community and 39 (out of 46) of the ACP coun tr ies. Following the ra t if ica t ion by all members of the EEC and by two th i rds of the ACP countries, the fu ll Agreement entered in to force on April 1, 1976 ( the trade provi- sions hav ing been in force since July 1, 1975). Three fo rmer overseas terr i tor ies, the Comoros, Seychelles, and Su r inam, already associated w i th the EEC under Part IV of the Treaty of Rome, acceded to the Con- vention in the course of 1976. Applications from Cape Verde, Papua New Guinea, and Sao Tome and Principe were approved in principle by the EEC-ACP Council of Ministers on July 14, 1976. For these three countries, accession to the Conven- tion will take place a f ter the conclusion of a nego- tiated agreement with the Community. On June 29, 1976 the Council extended the association under Part IV of the Treaty of Rome to the United King- dom's Overseas Countries and Territories. The Council's decision also gave them direct access to the Commun i ty ma rket on the same terms as those gran ted to the ACP states and set the amounts of aid to be given to the Un i ted K ingdom's Overseas Coun tr ies and Terr i tor ies in the context of financial and techn ical cooperation and the s tab i l iza t ion of export ea rn ings. On February 9, 1976 the Council of the EEC stated that it was in favor of Greece's request of June 12, 1975, to jo in the European Communities. It instructed the Committee of Permanent Repre- sentatives to prepare for negotiations with Greece which opened on July 27, 1976. Meanwhile, in Janua ry 1977 negotiations ended between Greece and the EEC on a new financial protocol within the context of the current association of Greece and the EEC. The protocol, which provides for budget- ary assistance to Greece of European un i ts of account (EUA) 55 million 9 and for lend ing by the European Gu inea, E th iop ia, F i j i, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, G renada, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Kenya, Lesotho, L ibe r ia, Madagascar, Malawi, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, M a u r i t i u s, N ig e r, N ige r ia, Rwanda, Sene- gal, S ie r ra Leone, Soma l ia, Sudan, Swaz i land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, T r in id ad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Wes te rn Samoa, Z a i r e, and Zamb ia. The Comoros, Seychelles, and S u r i n am jo ined d u r i ng 1976. 9 The va lue of the un it of account is calculated daily on the basis of a basket of the currenc ies of the members of the EEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Investment Bank (EIB) of EUA 225 million, will expire on October 31, 1981. In May 1976 the Council of the EEC agreed to make EUA 1,250 million available to Mediterranean countries in the period up to 1980, EUA 800 million in the form of loans from the EIB and the remainder to be contributed by member states. Trade and cooperation agreements w i th in the Communities' overall Mediterranean approach were signed with three Maghreb countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia) in April 1976. The new agreements define terms for the entry of agricultural produce into the EEC, regulate conditions for migrant workers from these Maghreb countries, provide for financial and technical assistance, and envisage free entry into the community of raw materials and industrial goods that have a specified "Maghreb value-added" con- tent. Provision is made for EUA 339 million of finan- cial assistance to the three countries over a five-year period. These agreements are the first to be con- cluded with Arab countries under the Mediterranean approach and are of indefinite duration. The new agreements were to come into force when ratified, but the trade provisions came into force on July 1, 1976 under interim arrangements. Also under the overall Mediterranean approach, a preferential trade and cooperation agreement be- tween the EEC and Egypt was initialed in October 1976. The agreement covers financial assistance, economic and technical cooperation, and trade and replaces the trade agreement of 1972. Agreements with Jordan and the Syrian Arab Republic, as well as Egypt were signed in Janua ry 1977. From July 1, 1977, all exports of these countries, except for products covered by the EEC's Common Agricul- tural Policy will enter the Community du ty free. Temporary ceilings will apply to petroleum products, cotton yarn, certain cotton fabrics, phosphate ferti- lizers, and aluminum until the end of 1979. In January the EEC also sighed a one-year agreement with Egypt on the supply of agricultural products to that country. In March 1976 Algeria informed the Commission that it was ready to begin negotiations with a view to concluding a food supply arrangement with the EEC for several years and in November, an agreement with Israel was initialed which comple- mented the 1975 agreement and contained a finan- cial protocol providing for the EIB to open a line of credit for Israel of EUA 30 million, as well as a pro- tocol extending the areas of cooperation with Israel. The agreement was signed on December 21, 1976. At its meeting on Janua ry 20, 1976 the Council adopted directives for the negotiation of a further, more comprehensive agreement with Portugal, de- signed to improve the trade scheme which was pre- viously in effect and extend it to cover economic cooperation and conditions for migrant workers. It would also contain a regular financial protocol to replace the emergency assistance that the EEC made available in October 1975. Negotiations were con- cluded on June 9, 1976. On July 29, the Council approved a decision to allow fur ther negotiations between Portugal and the Commission for an interim agreement on the application of the trade provisions of the additional protocol. The agreements were signed in September 1976 and the trade provisions entered into force on November 1, 1976. Discus- sions opened with Spain in April 1976 to prepare negotiations for extending the existing trade agree- ment to the enlarged Community. In March 1976 protocols were signed adapting the 1970 agreement with Malta to the enlarged Community and extend- ing it to cover agriculture and economic cooperation. The agreement will remain in force until June 30, 1977, before which time a fu r ther agreement is to be negotiated to achieve a free trade area within five years. On June 30, 1976 the Commission adopted pro- posals for the EEC's generalized tariff preferences scheme for 1977. The 1977 scheme provides greater benefits to developing countries than that for 1976 with the volume of preferential imports from devel- oping countries to rise from EUA 4,600 million to EUA 6,500 million. A larger number of agricultural imports, in particular those of special interest to the least developed countries, are to be granted prefer- ential treatment than in 1976. Ceilings for industrial imports other than textiles, footwear, and some steel products are to be based on 1974 import levels; this is expected to increase the value of imports qualify- ing for preferential treatment by 51 per cent. The ceiling on textile imports has been raised by 5 per cent and certain innovations have been made to liberalize such imports from the least developed countries. New rules of origin will apply in 1977 requiring sufficient processing in the country of origin to allow a change in tariff position. Cumulative ori- gin will be allowed for goods originating in the Asso- ciation of South East Asian Nations, the Central American Common Market, and the Andean Pact. Some of the more important measures in the area of the common agricultural policy again related to beef and veal. On January 19, 1976 the EXIM procedure matching the import of bovine meat into the Community to the quantity exported was re- placed by one making the issue of import licenses 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS conditional on equ iva lent purchases f rom the inter- vention stocks. It was expected to result in an increase in imports. Special fac i l i t ies were created for imports of beef and veal from ACP countries; these were extended in June until December 31, 1976. In December, a decision was adopted to l ift the import proh ib i t ion for beef and veal on April 1, 1977, when a combination of orientation prices and import levies would apply. On J anu a ry 1, 1976, f u r t h er reciprocal t a r i ff cuts were made be tween the coun t r ies of the EFTA and the EEC under the f r ee trade agreements. On December 1, 1976 some changes in the rules of origin under these ag reemen ts came in to e f fec t. In J anu a ry 1976, the cen tral banks of the Nord ic coun tr ies10 agreed to ce r ta in changes in their mu tual swap arrangements of 1962 as revised in 1967, including an increase in the max imum access to swap credits by each bank. The Nordic Inves tment Bank10 commenced operations on August 1, 1976. At the eleventh extraordinary session of the Coun- cil of M in is ters of the Organization of A f r ican Un i ty on December 6-10, 1976, a resolution was adopted on the creation of an A f r ican Economic Commun i ty in 25 years. The session also recommended that an A f r ican Payments Union be established. The trea ty found ing the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r ican States (ECOWAS) n was signed on May 28, 1975. The first ministerial meeting of ECOWAS took place in Accra July 20-23, 1976. It was decided in November 1976 to locate the head- quar ters of the Commun i ty in Lagos and those of the Community Fund in Lome. The agreement establishing the West African Clearing House (WACH ) ,32 was ra t if ied in mid- 1975. The Clearing House began operations on July 1, 1976 and the first clearings of payments between member countries took place on July 30. The second meeting of heads of state of the West African Economic Community (CEAO) 13 took place in Dakar on April 8-9, 1976 and approved the 1976 budget. A ministerial meeting of the CEAO took place in Ouagadougou on May 28-29. It was decided that two th irds of the Community Develop- 10 Denma rk, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. 11 Benin, The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, L iber ia, Mali, M au r i t an i a, Niger, N iger ia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 12 Ben in, The Gambia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, L iber ia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 13 Ivory Coast, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 20 ment Fund should be used to compensate members for falls in the prices of the ir exports, and the rema inder for deve lopment projects in Mali, Mauri- tan ia, Niger, and Upper Volta. In January 1976 the second phase of the reform of the West African Mone ta ry Un ion (UMOA ) ,14 agreed in May 1975, was in troduced. Under new regulations, credit ceil- ings are allocated on a national basis, rather than bank by bank. Banks are now expected to rely more on th e ir own resources and on the call money market and the cen tral bank may in tervene by g iv ing pr ior i ty to p re fe ren t ial operations. In April, The Gambia and Senegal agreed to establish a R iver Gamb ia Development Organiza- t ion (OMVG) and its f o rm al c rea t ion took place on October 5, 1976. At a mee t ing of the heads of state of the Mano R iver U n i o n15 in Monrovia on July 10, protocols were signed on the pa r t ic ipa t ion of other West A f r i c an States in the o rgan iza t ion, on mu tual t rade, and on t rade w i th th i rd countries. On Novem- ber 24, 1976 Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, and Niger decided to crea te a commission to s tudy the poss ib i l i t ies for increased regional cooperation. The conven t ion c rea t ing the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lake Countries (CEPGL) was signed in Kigali by the p res iden ts of B u r u n d i, Rwanda, and Za i re on September 20, 1976. A provisional f u nd of US$3 m i l l ion has been established for the organ iza t ion. On Janua ry 1, 1976, as provided for by the Lome Conven t ion, the t a r i ff p re fe rences for impo r ts f rom member states of the EEC were e l im ina ted f rom the ex te rnal cus toms t a r i ff of the Central A f r i c an Cus- toms and Economic Un ion (UDEAC) .10 At a meet- ing of m in is te rs of UDEAC on Apr il 30, 1976 it was decided to set up a Development Bank of Central A f r ican States (BDEAC ). The Bank w i ll f inance the UDEAC 10-year plan and 50 per cent of its resources will be devoted to commun i ty projects. At a meeting in Rabat on April 26-27, 1976 the finance and economy m in i s te rs of the 21 members of the League of Arab States 17 signed a conven- 14 Benin, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 15 L iber ia and Sierra Leone. 16 Cameroon, Central A f r i c an Emp ire, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 17 The League's membe rsh ip comprises A lger ia, Bahra in, Egyp t, Iraq, Jo rdan, K uw a i t, Lebanon, L ibyan A r ab Re- pub l ic, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, Oman, Pa les t ine, Qa tar, Saudi A rab ia, Somalia, Sudan, Syr ian A rab Repub l ic, Tunisia, Un i ted A rab Em ira tes, Yemen A rab Repub l ic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS tion creating an Arab Monetary Fund (AMF) to be based in Abu Dhabi. The Fund will have a capital of 250 million Arab dinars (one Arab dinar = SDR 3). Among the aims of the AMF are the restoration of balance of payments equi- librium among the member countries of the AMF, the stabilization of their exchange rates, the coor- dination of the monetary systems and policies of members, the liberalization of monetary, financial, and trade relations between its members, and the ultimate establishment of a unified Arab currency. Operations will start af ter the convention has been ratified by members having 55 per cent of the total capital subscription. The first meeting of the AMF took place on April 18-20, 1977. In August 1976, it was announced that the first stages of a common ex te rnal ta r i ff for the Arab Common Ma rke t18 would come into effect in 1978. The Gulf In terna t ional Bank 10 opened formally on December 15, 1976 with the aim of financing the trade of the Gulf states. On February 19, 1976 the countries in the Gulf Common Ma rke t20 agreed to conclude a series of bilateral trade agreements with the ultimate aim of establishing a common mar- ket with a unified currency. Discussions continued throughout the year among the monetary authori- ties of Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates on the establishment of a common cur- rency. In Janua ry 1976 a pre l im inary move was made by fixing the exchange rate relationship be- tween the U.A.E. dirham and the Bahra in dinar at Dh 10 = BD 1 for specified travel transactions. In September, the Qatari authorities announced that visitors from the United Arab Emirates could, up to specified limits, use their own dirhams in Qatar at par with the Qatar riyal. The U.A.E. authorities agreed to a reciprocal arrangement. On August 21, 1976 Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates signed an agreement with Egypt pro- viding for the establishment of a US$2 billion Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt. At a meeting in Izmir on April 21-22, 1976 the member countries of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey) agreed to establish a f ree trade area through the gradual reduction in ta r i f fs over a 10-year period and to set up a common investment bank. The Latin American Economic System (SELA) was founded in October 1975, when ministers from 18 Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Syrian Arab Republic, and Yemen Arab Republic. 19 Bahrain, Oman, Qa ta r, and United A rab Em ira tes. 20 Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. 25 Western Hemisphere countries21 signed an agree- ment in Panama. The first meeting was held in Caracas on January 12-15, 1976 and it was agreed to encourage the creation of Latin American multi- national companies, in particular in the areas of food, aluminum, sugar, and fertilizers. The conven- tion came into force on June 7 when ratification was completed by a majority of signatories. The authorities of the member countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) 22 decided in March to issue Latin American nego- tiable bills (Aceptacion Bancaria Latinoamericana or ABLA), guaranteed by the region's central banks, on U.S. financial markets. An issue designed to mobilize short-term finance began in September 1976. The Executive Committee of LAFTA met in Montevideo in April 1976 to appraise the results of 16 years of LAFTA activity. At the sixteenth ordinary conference on November 3-26, 1976, a f u r t h er 924 customs concessions were negotiated. Industrial cooperation agreements in the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical, photographic, and paint and varnish industries were expanded and an agreement was concluded on trade in surplus and deficit products of the chemical industry. A total of 79 special concessions was made by members to Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay under the arrangements for assistance to less-developed members. During 1976, Peru made use of a line of credit granted under the provisions of the Agreement of Santo Domingo, which established the LAFTA Multi- lateral Compensation and Reciprocal Credit Mecha- nism. The credits were made available to finance a disequilibrium in Peru's balance of payments. On January 1, 1976 the fifth tariff cut of 10 per cent on trade in 3,470 products with other Andean P a c t28 members came into force in Chile, Colombia, Peru, and Venezuela. In March the presidents of the central banks of the Andean Pact countries drew up the constitution for a monetary fund (Fondo Comun de Reservas) to finance the balance of pay- ments deficits of member countries and an agreement to this effect was signed in November 1976. This Fund will have an initial capital equivalent to 21 Argen t ina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa R ica, Cuba, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuado r, El Sal- vador, Grenada, Gua tema la, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, J am a i c a, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, Pa raguay, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, U ruguay, and Venezuela. 22 Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezuela. 23 Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS US$240 million, of which 75 per cent will be con- tributed equally by Colombia, Peru, and Venezuela over four years and the remainder by Bolivia and Ecuador over eight years. Credits will be granted for one year, renewable up to three years. On April 9, 1976 it was agreed to amend the foreign investment regulations of the Pact (Decision No. 24) in order to attract more fore ign capital. It was also agreed to amend other provisions of the Cartagena Agreement and extend by two years the deadline for the industrial programs and the common external t a r i f f. Chile failed to sign the amend ing protocol and withdrew f rom the organization on October 30, 1976. In the light of Chile's withdrawal, the remain- ing members signed an additional protocol on October 30, 1976 to extend the above-mentioned deadlines by a fu r th er year. In the early part of 1976, negotiations continued within the Central American Common Market (CACM) 24 on a proposal of its High Level Com- mittee for a new integration agreement to replace the 1960 Treaty of Managua. On March 23, 1976 the Committee presented to the pres iden ts of the member countries a d ra ft treaty to restructure the CACM as a Central American Economic and Social Commun i ty (CESCA). On Janua ry 1, 1976 the common external ta r i ff of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR i c oM )25 came in to force, resulting in the elimination of the rema in ing Commonwealth preferences granted by pa r t ic ipa t ing countries. The East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) 2G coun tr ies are to e l im ina te Common- wealth p re fe rences early in 1977 in order to come into line with other CARICOM coun tr ies. At a meet- ing of the heads of government of Caribbean Com- monwealth countries on March 26, 1976 it was agreed to establish a fo re ign exchange sa fe ty net to assist members with balance of paymen ts difficulties. The fund will consist in i t ia l ly of SDR 60 million pro- vided on the basis of specified quo tas by all CARICOM members with cen tral banks ( i .e ., Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago ), which will be able to use its resources. These four countries also agreed to a common protective policy to increase mu tual trade in cer ta in produc ts. On Janua ry 1, 24 Costa R ica, El Salvador, G u a t em a l a, Honduras, and N i c a r a g u a. 25 An t igu a, Barbados, Be l ize, Dom in i c a, G r en ad a, Guy an a, Jama ica, Mon t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N ev i s -Angu i l l a, S t. Lucia, St. V in c en t, and T r in idad and Tobago. 26 An t igu a, Dom in ica, G r en ad a, Mon t s e r r a t, S t. K i t ts- Nev is -Angu i l la, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 22 1977, new rules governing intraregional trade came into force in CARICOM. The URU PABOL 2 7. countries set up a permanent secretariat in 1975. In March 1976 Paraguay and U ruguay agreed to remove ta r i ff barriers and to harmon ize indu s t r ial and inves tment legislation. U ruguay is to remove all t a r i f fs on Paraguayan goods w i th in one yea r, while Paraguay is to dismantle its t a r i f fs on U ruguayan goods over a five-year period. In the first half of 1976, four signatories (Ban- gladesh, Ind ia, Korea, and Sri Lanka) ratified the Bangkok Agreement. 28 On J u ne 17, 1976 the first cut in t a r i f fs on mu tual trade among these four coun tr ies was introduced. In November 1976, Bu rma applied for membe rsh ip in the Asian Clear- ing Un ion (ACU) 20 and jo ined in February 1977. At its annual mee t ing in February 1977, the Board of the ACU approved some technical changes in the fun c t ion ing of the facility. The heads of state of the Association of South East As ian Na t ions (ASEAN)80 member countries met on February 23-24, 1976 and signed a Dec- la ra t ion of ASEAN Concord and a Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia. These agree- men ts prov ide for cooperation in the political, eco- nomic, social, and cu l tu ral fields and the establish- ment of a pe rmanent ASEAN secretariat in Jakarta. Economic collaboration is to consist of cooperation on basic commod i t ies, par t icu lar ly food and energy, cooperation in es tab l ish ing large-scale industrial pro jec ts, trade cooperation ( i n c l u d i ng long-term con- trac ts w i th regard to qu an t i ty, financial support for purchases at p re fe ren t ial in terest rates, preference in p rocu rement by government agencies, and the ex tens ion of t a r i ff p r e f e r en c e s ), and a jo int approach to in te rna t ional commodity problems and other world economic problems. The economic and p lann ing m in i s te rs of ASEAN, mee t ing on March 8 —9, 1976 initiated feasibility s tud ies for the immed ia te establishment of certain p lan ts, des igna ted as "ASEAN indus tr ial projects," wh ich would be eligible for p re fe ren t ial trad ing a r rangemen t s. (Gu ide l ines for the ir control were d rawn up at a m in is ter ial meeting on August 11, 1976.) It was also decided to establish preferential t rad ing arrangemen ts for rice and crude oil. Early in 1977 the Ph i l ipp ines and Singapore, and Thailand 27 Bo l iv ia, Pa raguay, and U rugu ay. 28 Bang ladesh, Ind ia, Korea, Lao People's Democratic R epub l i c, P h i l i p p i n e s, S ri L a n k a, and Tha i land. 29 Bang ladesh, Ind i a, I r a n, Nepa l, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka. 30 Indones ia, Ma lay s ia, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, and Thai- land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX and Singapore, in separate arrangemen ts, agreed to implement mutual across-the-board preferential tariff reductions of 10 per cent of existing ta r i f fs on all products traded between them to promote bilateral and intra-ASEAN cooperation. On April 23, 1975, Working Group 1 on ASEAN Monetary Arrangements was reconstituted as the Subcommittee on ASEAN Monetary Cooperation. Its terms of reference included the study of the mechanism and economic implications of an ASEAN Clearing Arrangemen t. The second meeting of the working group in January 1976 continued the study of the structure and workings of present trade and payments arrangements w i th in ASEAN and also the workings of the Asian Clearing Un ion. Discussions centered on proposals for (1) an ASEAN Clearing Arrangement; and (2) a reciprocal currency ("swap") arrangement. It was expected that the latter could be signed in 1977. An ASEAN Banking Council was founded in Singapore in August 1976 with the aim of promoting the region's economic development. On April 1, 1976, Australia and New Zealand renewed for a fu r ther 12 months their interim agree- ment guaranteeing tariff preferences in each other's marke ts. On September 29, they agreed to extend the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement for ten years f rom the beginning of 1976. In April 1977, the interim agreement was renewed for a fur ther six months pending the conclusion of the longer-term agreement. On November 6, 1976 Australia and Papua New Guinea signed a Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement establishing a f ree trade area. APPENDIX Surveillance over Exchange Rate Policies General Principles Article IV, Section 3(a) provides that "The Fund shall oversee the in te rna t ional mone ta ry system in order to ensure its effec t ive opera t ion, and shall oversee the compliance of each member with its obligations under Section 1 of th is Article." Ar t ic le IV, Section 3(b) provides that in order to f u l f i ll its func t ions under 3fa), "the Fund shall exercise firm surveillance over the ex- change rate policies of members, and shall adopt specific principles for the gu idance of all members w i th respect to those policies." Article IV, Section 3(b) also provides that "The principles adopted by the Fund shall be con- sistent w i th cooperative a r rangemen ts by which mem- bers ma in ta in the va lue of the ir currenc ies in relation to the value of the currency or currencies of other mem- bers, as well as w i th other exchange arrangements of a member's choice consistent w i th the purposes of the Fund and Section 1 of this Article. These principles shall respect the domestic social and political policies of members, and in app ly ing these principles the Fund shall pay due regard to the circumstances of members." In add i t ion, A r t ic le IV, Section 3(b) requires that "Each member shall provide the Fund with the in fo rma t ion necessary for such surveillance, and, when requested by the Fund, shall consult w i th it on the member's ex- change rate policies." The principles and procedures set out below, which apply to all members whatever their exchange arrange- ments and wha tever the ir ba lance of paymen ts position, are adopted by the Fund in order to pe r fo rm its func- tions under Section 3(b). They are not necessarily com- prehensive and are subject to reconsideration in the light of experience. They do not deal directly with the Fund's responsibilities referred to in Section 3(a), al- though it is recognized that there is a close relationship between domestic and in te rna t ional economic policies. This relationship is emphasized in Article IV which in- cludes the fo l low ing provision: "Recognizing . . . that a p r inc ipal objective (of the in te rna t ional mone tary sys tem) is the con t inu ing development of the orderly under ly ing conditions that are necessary for financial and economic stability, each member undertakes to collaborate w i th the Fund and other members to assure orderly exchange arrangemen ts and to promote a stable system of exchange rates." Principles for the Guidance of Members' Exchange Rate Policies A. A member shall avoid manipulating exchange rates or the in terna t ional monetary system in order to prevent effec t ive balance of payments ad jus tment or to gain an u n f a ir competitive advantage over other members. B. A member should intervene in the exchange ma rket if necessary to counter disorderly conditions which may be characterized inter alia by disruptive short-term movements in the exchange value of its currency. C. Members should take into account in their inter- vention policies the interests of other members, in- 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS e lud ing those of the countries in whose currencies they intervene. ( i i i) Principles of Fund Surveillance over Exchange Rate Policies 1. The su rve i l lance of exchange ra te policies shall be adap ted to the needs of i n t e r n a t i o n al a d j u s tm e nt as they develop. The f u n c t i o n i ng of the in te rna t ional ad ju s tm ent process sha ll be kept under review by the Execu t ive Board and In te r im Committee and the as- sessment of its ope ra t ion sha ll be t ak en in to account in the imp lemen ta t ion of the principles set fo r th below. 2. In its su rve i l lance of the observance by members of the principles set fo r th above, the Fund shall con- sider the fo l low ing deve lopmen ts as among those wh ich might indicate the need for discussion w i th a membe r: ( i) pro trac ted large-scale in t e rv en t ion in one direc- tion in the exchange ma rke t; ( i i) an un su s t a in ab le level of o f f ic ial or quasi- off ic ial bo r row ing, or excessive and prolonged shor t- term o f f ic ial or qua s i -o f f ic ial lend ing, for ba lance of paymen ts purposes; ( a) the i n t r o d u c t i o n, subs tan t ial in t en s i f i c a- t ion, or prolonged m a in t en an c e, for bal- ance of paymen ts purposes, of re s t r ic t ions on, or incen t ives fo r, cu r rent t ransac t ions or payments, or (b) the in t roduc t ion or s u b s t a n t i al mod if ica- tion for balance of payments purposes of restrictions on, or incentives fo r, the in- flow or outflow of capital; the pu rsu i t, for ba lance of paymen ts purposes, of monetary and other domestic f inanc ial policies that provide abno rmal encouragement or discouragement to capital flows; and (v) behavior of the exchange rate that appears to be unre la ted to unde r ly ing econom ic and f inanc ial conditions inc lud ing fac to rs a f f e c t ing competitiveness and long-term capital move- ments. 3. The Fund's appraisal of a member's exchange rate policies shall be based on an eva lua t ion of the developments in the member's balance of payments against the background of its reserve position and its external indebtedness. This appra isal shall be made w i th in the f ramewo rk of a comprehensive analysis of the general economic s i tua t ion and economic policy strategy of the member, and shall recognize that do- mestic as well as external policies can con tr ibu te to timely ad ju s tment of the ba lance of paymen ts. The appraisal shall take into account the extent to which the policies of the member, inc lud ing its exchange rate policies, serve the objectives of the con t inu ing develop- ment of the orderly under ly ing conditions that are nec- essary for f in an c i al stability, the promotion of sus ta ined sound economic growth, and reasonable levels of employment. ( i v) 24 Procedures for Surveillance I. Each member shall no t i fy the Fund in appropriate d e t a il w i t h in th i r ty days af ter the Second Amendment becomes effective of the exchange arrangements it in- tends to app ly in f u l f i l lm e nt of its obligations under Article IV, Section 1. Each member shall also notify the Fund p romp t ly of any changes in i ts exchange arrangemen ts. II. Members sha ll consu lt w i th the Fund regularly und er A r t ic le IV. The con su l t a t ions und er Article IV sha ll comp rehend the regu lar consu l ta t ions under A r t i c l es V I II and XIV. In p r inc ip le such consu l ta t ions sha ll take place a n n u a l l y, and sha ll in c lude cons idera t ion of the obse rvance by membe rs of the p r in c ip l es set forth above as we ll as of a member's ob l ig a t ions u n d er Article IV, Section 1. Not l a t er t h an three mon ths a f t er the t e rm i n a t i on of d i scu s s ions between the member and the s t a f f, the Execu t ive Board sha ll reach conclusions and the reby comp le te the c o n s u l t a t i on u n d er Article IV. I I I. B road deve lopmen ts in exchange rates w i ll be reviewed per iod ica l ly by the Executive Board, inter alia in d iscuss ions of the i n t e r n a t i o n al a d j u s tm e nt process w i th in the f ramewo rk of the World Economic Outlook. The Fund w i ll c o n t i n ue to conduct special consu l ta t ions in prepar ing for these discussions. IV. The M a n a g i ng D i rec tor sha ll m a i n t a in close con- tact w i th membe rs in connec t ion w i th t h e ir exchange a r r a n g em e n ts and exchange po l ic ies, and w i ll be pre- pared to d iscuss on the i n i t i a t i ve of a member im- po r t ant changes t h at it con temp la tes in i ts exchange a r r a n g em e n ts or i ts exchange ra te policies. V. If, in the in te rval between Article IV consultations, the M a n a g i ng D irec tor, t a k i ng i n to account any views that may have been expressed by other members, con- siders th at a member's exchange rate policies may not be in accord w i th the exchange rate principles, he shall raise the m a t t er i n f o rm a l ly and c o n f i d e n t i a l ly w i th the member, and sha ll conclude p romp t ly whether there is a ques t ion of the observance of the pr inc ip les. If he concludes that there is such a ques t ion, he shall initiate and conduct on a con f id en t i al basis a discussion with the member under A r t ic le IV, Section 3(b). As soon as possible a f t er the comp le t ion of such a d iscuss ion, and in any event not la ter t h an f o ur mon ths a f t er i ts in i t ia- t ion, the M a n a g i ng D i rec tor sha ll report to the Execu- t ive Board on the resu l ts of the d iscuss ion. If, however, the M a n a g i ng D irec tor is sa t isf ied that the principles are be ing observed, he shall i n f o rm a l ly adv ise all Execu- tive Directors, and the staff shall report on the dis- cussion in the con text of the next Ar t ic le IV consulta- t i o n; but the M a n a g i ng Director shall not place the ma t ter on the agenda of the Execu t ive Board unless the member reques ts that th is procedure be followed. VI. The Execu t ive Directors shall review annua l ly the general imp lemen ta t ion of the Fund's surveillance over members' exchange ra te policies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In P a rt I I, i n d i v i d u al su rveys of the exchange systems of the m em b er coun t r i es of the F u n d, i n c l u d i ng two n o n- m e t r o p o l i t an t e r r i to r i e s, are g i v e n. T he exchange sys­ tems of five o ther coun t r i es w h i ch we re not membe rs of the F u nd at the t ime th is R e p o rt was w r i t t en are a lso d e s c r i b e d. In gene ra l, the su rveys re la te to the exchange systems as at the e nd of 1976. F or a few coun t r i es the su rveys re la te to the exchange systems at a la ter date or i n c l u de references to s ign i f icant deve lopmen ts w h i ch took p lace e a r ly in 1977. T he d e s c r i p t i on of an exchange sys tem is not neces­ s a r i ly con f in ed to those aspects i n v o l v i ng exchange r e s t r i c­ t ions or exchange c o n t r o l s. As in p r ev ious R e p o r t s, ques t ions of d e f i n i t i on a nd j u r i s d i c t i on have not been ra i sed, a nd an a t tempt has been made to desc r ibe re s t r ic­ t ive systems in t h e ir en t i re ty, except for the ta r i ff s t ruc­ ture a n d, in mo st cases, d i r e ct taxes on expo r ts a nd im p o r t s. T h u s, the su rveys i n c l u de references to su ch features as im p o rt l i c e n s i n g, advance depos it r equ i r e­ men ts, im p o rt su rcha rges, t r a v el taxes, expo rt l i c e n s i n g, and expo rt in c en t ive schemes. S im i l a r l y, the sec t ion "Ch ang es d u r i ng 1 9 7 6" m ay i n c l u de references to c e r t a in deve lopmen ts that m ay have a d i r e ct im p a ct on i n t e r n a t i o n al t ran sac t ions but are not reflected in the b o dy of the su rvey, su ch as ma jor rev i s ions of im p o rt tariffs or deve lopmen ts r e l a t i ng to r e g i o n al c o o p e r a t i o n. A s t a n d a r d i z ed f r am ew o rk has been em p l o y ed in d r a f t i ng the su rv ey s: each sys tem is d e s c r ib ed und er s im i l ar head ings, a nd e a ch c o u n t ry su rvey con t a ins a final sec t ion that lists c h r o n o l o g i c a l ly the mo re s ign i f i­ cant changes w h i ch took p lace in the re s t r ic t ive sys tem d u r i ng 1976. An i n d i c a t i on of the subject ma t ter to be f o u nd und er these head ings is g iven in the f o l l ow i ng pa rag raph s. U n d er Exchange Rate System, the par va lue a n d / or the c e n t r al rate a n d / or the o f f ic ial exchange rates are g iv en, u s u a l ly in terms of S D R s, g o l d, a n d / or U . S. d o l­ la rs, toge ther w i th a re fe rence to o ther rates w h i ch m ay be essen t ial to the c o u n t r y 's exchange rate sy s tem. In the su rveys of c e r t a in coun t r ies w i th m u l t i p le exchange rate systems, fu r ther de ta i ls are g iv en in a T a b le of E x c h a n ge Ra tes (see b e l o w ). T he rates quo t ed are those effective on D e c em b er 3 1, 1976, unless stated o the rw i se. U n d er Exchange Control Territory, the extent of a p p l i c a b i l i ty of the exchange c o n t r ol is e x p l a i n ed w h en it cove rs two or m o re sove re ign or au tonomous t e r r i­ tor ies whose res iden ts have c o m m on r igh ts a nd o b l i g a­ t ions und er the exchange c o n t r ol r egu l a t ion s. U n d er Administration of Control, some i n d i c a t i on is g iven of the au tho r i t ies re spon s ib le for p o l i cy a nd a dm i n i s t r a t i on of the c o n t r o ls and of the extent to w h i ch th e ir powe rs are de lega ted for p r a c t i c al w o r k i ng purposes. U n d er Prescription of Currency, the requ i remen ts affec t ing the s e l e c t ion of the c u r r e n cy a nd m e thod of se t t lement for t ran sac t ions w i th o ther coun t r i es are d e s c r i b e d. W h e re a c o u n t ry has c o n c l u d ed paymen ts agreemen ts w i th o th er coun t r i e s, the terms of these agreemen ts o f ten l e ad to p r e s c r i p t i on of the c u r r e n cy for spec i f ied ca tegor ies of paymen ts to a nd f r om the coun t r i es c o n c e r n e d. T he coun t r i es w i th w h i ch b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreemen ts are in fo rce are l i s ted e i ther in the text or in a foo tno te. F or a c o u n t ry who se c u r r e n cy has i n t e r n a t i o n al im p o r t a n c e, the p r e s c r i p t i on of c u r r e n cy a r rangemen ts i n v o l ve the use of its own c u r r e n cy h e ld by non res iden ts in accoun ts w i th a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. P a y­ ments to a nd f r om s u ch non re s ident accoun ts are then rega rded as equ iv a l ent to se t t lemen ts in fo r e ign c u r r e n c y. U n d er Nonresident Accounts, an i n d i c a t i on is g iven of the m a n n er in w h i ch the c o u n t ry regards the accoun ts in its c u r r e n cy of a c c o u nt ho ld e rs not r eg a rd ed as r e s i­ dent in that c o u n t r y, a nd the f a c i l i t i es a nd l im i t a t i o ns a t tached to s u ch a c coun t s. W h e re there is m o re than one type of non r e s id ent a c coun t, the na tu re and op e r a­ t i on of the v a r i o us types are d e s c r i b e d. U n d er Imports and Import Payments, im p o rt l i c en s­ ing requ i remen ts are d e s c r i b ed b r i e f ly, a nd de ta i ls are g iven of the a d d i t i o n al requ i remen ts im p o s ed on pay­ ments for im p o r ts a nd of any adv an ce depos it r equ i r e­ men ts. T he t e rm "op en gene ral l i c e n s e" ind ica tes a r rangemen ts w h e r e by c e r t a in impo r ts or o ther in te r­ n a t i o n al t ran sac t ions are exempt f r om the r e s t r i c t ive a p p l i c a t i on of l i c e n s i ng r equ i r em en t s, in con t ra st to an " i n d i v i d u al l i c e n s e ," w h i ch m ay be e i ther g iven f ree ly, or re s t r ic ted in its issue, a c c o r d i ng to a dm i n i s t r a t i ve d e c i s ion s. T he exp re s s ion " g l o b al q u o t a" is em p l o y ed to ind i c a te quo tas that are not nece s sa r i ly un iv e r s al in th e ir a p p l i c a t i on but ins tead m ay a p p ly to a g r o up of coun t r i e s, e.g., g l o b al quo tas for im p o r ts f r om coun t r i es in the E u r o p e an E c o n o m ic C o m m u n i t y. U n d er Payments for Invisibles, a c t i on in the ma t ter of p e rm i t t i ng paymen ts a b r o ad for c u r r e nt t ran sac t ions in inv i s ib l es is d e s c r ib ed b r ie f ly, toge ther w i th any l i m i t a­ t ions on the expo rt of fo r e ign a nd dom e s t ic b ankno t e s. F or some coun t r i es that do not impo se l im i t a t i o ns on paymen ts for i n v i s i b l e s, th is sec t ion is c om b i n ed w i th the sec t ion on P ro c e eds f r om Inv i s ib l es (see b e l o w ). U n d er Exports and Export Proceeds, the a p p l i c a t i on of expo rt l i c e n s i n g, wh e re th is is op e r a t iv e, is i n d i c a t e d, toge ther w i th a b r i ef o u t l i ne of the requ i remen ts im p o s ed on the proceeds d e r i v ed f r om expo r t s. T he exp re s s ion "exchange rece ip ts must be s u r r e n d e r e d" ind ica tes that the r e c ip i ent is r e q u i r ed by the regu la t ions to se ll h is fo re ign exchange aga inst l o c al c u r r e n c y, u s u a l ly at the o f f ic ial ra te, to the c en t r al b ank or to a c omm e r c i al b ank or exchange dea ler a u t h o r i z ed for th is pu rpo se. In some coun t r i es the re is a r e q u i r em e nt that the exchange be s o ld in a free m a r k e t. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- erning exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to in te rna t ional receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are u sua l ly dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Pay- ments for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are summa r ized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other fo rms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for certain countries having a mu l t ip le currency prac- tice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For conve- nience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency un i ts per U.S. dollar. The tables include effec- tive rates arising f rom the nego t ia t ion of percentages of the total exchange at d i f fe rent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certifi- cates, etc. Under Changes during 1976, the more significant changes in the country's exchange and trade system du r ing 1976 are presented in chronological order. Impor- tant measures made effective in the early months of 1977 are indicated in certain surveys in footnotes to the text. The individual coun try surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned; a ma jor portion of this part of the Report was prepared und er the general direction of Mr. J. H. C. de Looper, of the Exchange and Trade Relations Department, now re t ired. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On March 22, 1963, an in i t ial par va lue was estab- lished of 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per A fghan i, correspond ing at the t ime to Af 45 = SDR 1. No exchange transac t ions take place at the par value. Da A fghan i s tan Bank (the cen t ral b a n k) quotes off ic ial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of Af 44.70 and A f 4 5 . 3 0, respectively. The official selling rate applies to ce r ta in fo re ign exchange paymen ts by the Central Government (debt service, con tr ibu t ions to international organizations, and the fo re ign exchange requ iremen ts of A fghan embassies and m iss ions ab ro ad ). The official buy ing rate applies to 40 per cent of the foreign currency salaries of fore ign employees of the Gove rnmen t, government en te rp r ises, and domes t ic com- panies, and to purchases of b i la teral agreement curren- cies for ma in tenance in A fghan is tan of embassies and state t r ad ing o rgan iza t ions by the respective b i la te ral partner countries. Da A fghan is tan Bank charges com- missions rang ing f rom Mo of 1 per cent to 3/s of 1 per cent on exchange t ransac t ions. Special arrangements are applicable to wool when exported to bilateral coun tr ies, i.e., coun t r ies w i th wh ich bilateral paymen ts agreements are in force.1 The sur- render rate for proceeds from wool exports to bilateral countries is Af 55 per US$1 (o f f ic ial ra te plus subsidy of Af 10 per US$1 ). The su r render ra te for proceeds f rom cotton exports to b i la te ral coun tr ies is in principle A f 56 per US$1 (o f f i c i al b u y i ng ra te p lus subsidy of Af 11 .3 per U S $ 1) and the s u r r e n d er ra te for cotton exports to all other countries is in principle AF 50 per US$1 (off ic ial buy ing rate plus subsidy of Af 5.3 per U S $ 1 ), but the A f g h a ni am o u nt that the exporter effectively receives is subject to a u n i f o rm ce i l ing for all countries.2 All other t ransac t ions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaa r; proceeds f rom the export of w a lnu ts received over b i la te ral p aym en ts accounts are subject in pr inc ip le to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent, which is suspended. Da A fghan i s tan Bank quotes f ixed ope ra t ional free m a rk et rates for the U.S. dollar, which are ad jus ted f rom t ime to time; 3 on December 31, 1976, these rates were Af 50 buy ing, 1 People's Republic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, and U.S.S.R. There is also a b i la teral p a ym e n ts a r r a n g em e nt w i th Ind ia und er wh ich the bulk of trade is settled through a special account ma in ta ined in incon- vertible Indian rupees w i th the Reserve Bank of Ind ia. 2 Payment to the exporter is calculated at a fixed price of Af 61,600 a metric ton (f .o .b. A f g h an bo rd e r) when the invoice p r ice exceeds US$1,100 a me t r ic ton f.o.b. for expor ts to b i l a t e r al coun t r i es or US$1,232 for expor ts to mu l t i la te ral coun t r ie s. Any excess of expo rt proceeds over the payment to the expor ter is cred i ted to a special fund of the Ministry of Finance for the stabilization of cotton prices, after conversion at the exchange rate applicable to the coun t ry of destination. 3 Da Afghan is tan Bank's opera t ional buy ing ra te is applicable to the convertible cu r rency proceeds of all expor ts; its ope ra t ional selling ra te applies to impo rt paymen ts in conver t ib le cu r renc ies made by ce r ta in government entities and ce r ta in other public sector agencies. and Af 51 selling, per US$1, while the f ree market rate in the bazaar was Af 44.00 buy ing, and Af 44.50 selling, per US$1, and that in the commercial banks was Af 46.00 buy ing, Af 47.00 selling, per US$1. Da A fgh an i s t an Bank also posts operational free market rates for deutsche ma rk, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss f r a n c s, wh ich ref lect the ir re la t ive va lues to the U.S. do l lar in in te rna t ional markets, and free market ra tes for the Ind ian rupee and the Pak is tan rupee, which are d e t e rm in ed by d em and and supp ly for the currenc ies concerned. Da A fghan i s tan Bank f rom time to t ime buys and sells in the f ree market b i la te ral agreement dollars and bilat- eral agreement sterling resulting partly f rom loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghan is tan's bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by government commercial and indus- tr ial enterprises for their impo r ts f rom the countries conce rned. The selling rate for Czechoslovakian and U.S.S.R. clearing dollars was Af 57.00 per US$1 on December 31, 1976, and that for clearing sterling under the paymen ts agreement w i th the People's Republic of China was Af 95.00 per <£ stg. 1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through Da A fgh an i s t an Bank. The control is fac i l i ta ted by the existence of relatively large companies specializ- ing in the export of such commodities as karaku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these compan ies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodi- ties, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for seven authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan is tan has b i la teral paymen ts agreements 1 must be made in the fore ign currencies specified in the agreements. The pro- ceeds f rom exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton to other coun tr ies must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license but impo rt transac- tions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, spe- cial permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Gove rnment fac i l i ta tes the fu lf i l l- ment of the comm i tmen ts unde r taken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with b i la teral agreement countries is carried out on a compensa t ion basis and u s u a l ly both imports and exports are arranged by the same t rade r; impo r ts against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Governmen t's ex ternal debt servicing. Paymen ts for impor ts th rough the b a n k i ng system to payments agreement countries other than Ind ia may be made only under letters of credit; those to Ind ia may be made aga inst bills for collection. Paymen ts to other countries may be made under letters of c red i t, aga inst b i l ls for collection, or aga inst an u n d e r t a k i ng by the impo r t er to impo rt goods at least equ iva lent to the pay- ment made through the b a n k i ng system. A deposit of 100 per cent of the v a lue of the impo r ts in a f g h a n is ca lcu la ted at the p reva i l ing f ree ma rket ra te, or in fo r- eign exchange, is requ ired upon e s tab l i shment of a le t ter of cred i t. Such deposits may be used as co l la te ral to obtain loans f rom commercial banks. Da A fghan i s tan Bank is au thor ized to re fu se to sell fo re ign exchange for the impo r t a t ion of cer ta in consumer goods th at are regarded as nonessen t ia l; the comme rc ial b anks are obliged to con fo rm w i th the cen t ral bank 's prac t ices. However, exchange for these i tems may be pu rchased in the bazaa r. Payments for Invisibles Cen tral gove rnment paymen ts for fore ign debt service and ce r ta in other inv is ib les are made at the o f f ic ial ra te. All other paymen ts are settled at f ree ma rket rates. There is an exchange a l loca t ion f rom the banks for tou r i st travel and bus iness travel abroad of the equ iva- lent of US$1,500 a person a t r i p, and for pilgrimages of the equ iv a l ent of US$1,000 a person a year. The a l loca t ion for med ical t r e a tm e nt abroad is US$2,000 a t r ip for the United States, Europe, and J ap an, and US$1,000 a t r ip for other As ian coun t r ies; the re are, in a d d i t i o n, a l loca t ions for a c c om p a n y i ng persons.4 The fee for a passport va l id for one year is Af 10,000 for tour ist travel and Af 5,000 for bus iness t ravel (Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of t r a v e l ). Specific perm iss ion is requ i red for the export by t rave le rs of fo re ign cur- rency notes in excess of the equ iva lent of US$50. Travelers are not allowed to take out more t h an Af 1,000 in domes t ic bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than go ld) are not sub ject to license but export t ransac t ions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and mu seum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over 4 On J a n u a ry 2, 1977 the exchange a l loca t ions for t o u r i s t, bus iness, and medical t ravel we re increased to US$3,000 a pe rson, w i th c e r t a in exceptions for nearby coun tr ies. 30 exports to b i la te ral agreement countries (see section on Impo r ts and Import Payments, above ). Ka rakul is not no rma l ly exported to payments agreement countries, but may be sold at auction at Leningrad. Exchange receipts f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the appropriate exchange rate (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). The net proceeds of all other exports must either be sold at f ree ma rket rates (to Da Afghan is tan Bank, to a com- mercial bank, or in the bazaa r) or be used by the exporter or a th ird par ty to pay for imports. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, walnuts, and raisins. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the fore ign currency salaries of for- eign employees of the A fghan public and private sectors must be converted in to afghan is at the official rate, but the r em a i n i ng 60 per cent may be rem i t ted abroad or exchanged at the free market ra te. Except in the case of Ind ia, receipts over b i la te ral payments agreement accoun ts f r om the embassies and state t rad ing organiza- t ions of the coun t r ies concerned for their local expenses in A f g h a n i s t an are converted at the off ic ial rate. All other receipts f rom invisibles are sold at free market rates th rough either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers en te r ing A f g h a n i s t an may not b r ing in more than Af 1,000 in A f g h an bankno tes. Capital Foreign inv e s tm ent in A fghan i s tan requires prior app roval and is adm in i s t e r ed, as is domes t ic private inv e s tm en t, by an Inves tment Comm i t tee composed of five cab inet m in is ters. The Foreign and Domestic Pri- va te Inves tment Law of 1353 (issued on Ju ly 4, 1974) provides for a numb er of benef i ts, which inc lude ( 1) income t ax exemp t ion for f o ur years (s ix years out- side Kabul p r o v i n c e ), b e g i n n i ng f r om the date of the first sales of produc ts re su l t ing f rom the new inves tmen t; (2) exemp t ion f rom impo rt du t ies on essen t ial impo r ts (m a i n ly of cap i tal good s ); (3) exemp t ion f rom taxes on d iv idends for four years a f t er the f irst d is t r ibu t ion of d iv idend s, but not more t h an seven years a f t er the app roval of the inv e s tm en t; (4) exemp t ion f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans wh ich con s t i tu te p a rt of an approved inves tmen t; (5) exemp t ion f r om export du t ie s, provided that the products are pe rm i t ted to be expor ted; and (6) manda- to ry purchases by gove rnment agencies and departments of the ir requ i remen ts f r om en terpr ises established under the law where prices of such p roduc ts are no more th an 15 per cent h igher t h an the price of impor tab le equ iva- len ts. The law prov ides that fo r e ign inves tment in A f g h a n i s t an c an on ly t a ke place th rough j o i nt ven tu re s, w i th fo r e ign pa r t ic ipa t ion not exceeding 49 per cent. It also establishes that an inve s tment approved by the Inve s tment Comm i t tee shall requ i re no f u r t h er license to operate in A fghan i s tan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal and interest ins ta l lmen ts on loans f rom abroad may be remitted free ly to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated af ter five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total regis- tered capital. All the forego ing t rans fe rs are made through the free ma rke t. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any fo rm in A fghan is tan. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of M in is ters; such licenses are not n o rm a l ly g ran ted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus tr ial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewe lry and of other articles con t a in ing minor quan t i t ies of gold or s i lver do not requ i re a license and may be made f ree ly. Cus toms du t ies are payable on imports and exports of silver in any fo rm unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies. The impo rt du ty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1976 Du r ing the year, the f ree ma rket exchange rate in the bazaar appreciated f rom about Af 54 to about Af 44 per US$1. January 2. Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank d iscon t inued its practice of m a i n t a i n i ng i ts ope ra t ional f ree ma rket rate w i th in Af 2.0 per US$1 of the f ree ma rket ra te quoted in the bazaar and set fixed buy ing and selling rates of Af 57 and Af 58 per US$1, respectively. The com- mercial banks now were allowed to set their exchange rates f ree ly rather than at the f ree ma rket rates quoted by Da A f g h a n i s t an B ank; the ir quo ta t ions h en c e fo r th were close to those in the bazaar (which at the time were about Af 55 per US $ 1 ). Da A fgh an i s t an Bank stood ready to purchase all proceeds f r om exports, and i ts free ma rket se l l ing rate ( r a th er th an the bazaar ra te) was made app l icab le to impo rt paymen ts by ce r ta in AFGHANISTAN gove rnment and public sector entities. The exchange rate for Czechoslovakian, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslav clear- ing dollars remained unchanged at Af 57 buy ing and Af 59 selling, per US$1. March 4. Settlements with Yugoslavia were in pr in- ciple placed on a convertible currency basis, fo l low ing the expiration of the bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th that country. April 3. The surrender rate for proceeds from wool exports to bilateral countries was changed f rom Af 60 per US$1 (o f f ic ial rate plus subsidy of Af 15 per US$1) to Af 55 per US$1 ( o f f i c i al ra te p lus sub s idy of Af 10 per US $ 1 ). May 12. Da A fghan i s tan Bank changed its opera- t ional f ree market rates f rom Af 57 b u y i ng and Af 58 s e l l i n g, per US $1 to Af 56 b u y i ng and Af 57 se l l ing, per US$1, respectively. The exchange rate for Czecho- slovakian, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslav clearing dollars also was set at Af 56 b u y i ng and Af 57 se l l ing, per US$1. May 31. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased f r om US$800 to US$1,500 a person a t r ip. The a l loca t ion for bus iness travel was raised f rom US$20 a day, for a m ax imum of one month, to US$1,500 a tr ip. P i lgr ims could obtain US$1,000 a person a year. The allocation for medical trea tment abroad was changed f rom US$20 a day for the United States, Europe, and Japan and US$10 a day for other countries to US$2,000 and US$1,000 a tr ip, respectively. May 31. The l im it on the amount of Afghan bank- notes that trave lers could take out or b r ing in was raised f r om Af 500 to Af 1,000. September 10. P aym en ts on a co l lec t ion basis were allowed for impo r ts f rom Ind ia. October 26. Da Afghan is tan Bank changed its opera- t ion al free ma rket rates to Af 50 buy ing and Af 51 s e l l i n g, p er US$1, f or m u l t i l a t e r al c u r r e n cy t ransac t ions on ly. The exchange rate for Czechoslovakian and U.S.S.R. clearing dollars was left unchanged at Af 56 b u y i ng and Af 57 se l l ing, per US$1. December 2. Passport fees were modified. December 10. New s u r r e n d er a r r ang em en ts for the proceeds f r om co t ton exports came in to force. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per Algerian D inar. Algeria avails itself of w ider ma rg ins. Since J anu a ry 21, 1974 A lger ia has fo l lowed an inde- pendent exchange rate policy. Da i ly b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates for specified cu r renc ies l are established by the Central Bank of A lger ia. On December 3 1, 1976, the Cen tral Bank's buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 4 .1510 and DA 4.1660, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank charges on its t ran sac t ions in foreign currenc ies a comm iss ion r a n g i ng f rom 0 .2 per mill to 0.4 per m i l l, d ep end ing on the n a tu re of the t ransac t ion, and a tax of 6 per cent on the am o u nt of the comm iss ion. An encou ragement p r em ium is g ran ted on the conversion of convertible currencies repa tr ia ted by A lger ians wo rk ing abroad. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Cen t ral Bank; authorized banks must clear the ir fo re ign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day bu t, under cer ta in cond i t ions, they are permitted to hold outside Algeria cover for docu- men ta ry credits. There are no fo rwa rd exchange facilities. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of F inance and the Cen t ral Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the fo rmu la t ion of the exchange leg is la- tion and regulations and is responsible for their execu- t ion and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Adm in- istration have been given au thor i ty to carry out many of the details of exchange control. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Import and export licenses requ i re the v isa of the Cen tral Bank. The Office Na t ional de Commercialisation (ONA CO ), the Office Algerien In te rp ro fess ionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Office Na t ional de Commerc ia l isa t ion des Produits V i t iv in i- coles (ONCV ), the Societe Na t iona le des Tabacs et A l lume t tes (SNTA), the Societe Na t iona le d'Edition et de D i f f u s i on (SNED ), the Societe Na t iona le de Side- ru rg ie (SNS ), the Societe Na t iona le de Cons truc t ions Mecan iques (SONACOME ), and other s im i lar organiza- t ions have a monopo ly over the import of a large n um- ber of commodities. The Societe Na t iona le pour la Recherche, la Produc t ion, le Transport, la T rans fo r- ma t ion et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over impor ts and domes- tic sales of petroleum and petroleum products, and h and l es most exports of these commodities. Inves tment of fo r e ign cap i tal in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requ i res app roval by a Na t ional Inve s tment Committee in order to ob ta in the benef i ts of the Inves tment Code. Foreign bo r row ing requ i res the pr ior approval either of the M in i s t er of F inance or of the Cen t ral Bank. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r ies w i th wh i ch no p aym en ts ag reemen ts are in force are made in convertible cur- renc ies. Se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r ies w i th wh ich A lger ia has conc luded b i la te ral paymen ts ag reemen ts are made th rough special accoun ts u n d er the te rms of the agree- men ts. Some of these accounts are denom ina ted in A lg e r i an d i n a rs and others in U.S. do l lars of account. A lge r ia m a i n t a i ns p aym en ts ag reemen ts w i th A lb an i a, Bu lga r ia, Gu in e a, Gu inea -B i s sau, No r th Korea, and the U.S.S.R. Specified non comm e r c i al se t t lemen ts w i th Morocco and Tun i s ia are channe led th rough a d i rham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in T u n i s i an d i n a rs at the Cen t ral Bank of Tun is ia. Nonresident Accounts For res iden ts of coun t r ies ou ts ide the French F ranc Area, the regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are s im i l ar to those applied before 1962; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or I n t e r n al Non res ident Accounts. For res iden ts of French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in A lge r ian d in a r s: Ind iv idual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts.2 Except as described below, all opera t ions th rough these accounts are subject to au tho r iza t ion. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited w i th payments f rom any coun t ry. Balances in such accounts opened prior to J a n u a ry 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty have been released for t rans fer abroad. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only w i th prior au thor iza t ion f rom the Central Bank. They may be cred i ted f ree ly for au thor ized impo r ts f r om the French Franc Area, and with proceeds f rom the sale of con- ve r t ib le cu r renc ies; w i th proceeds f r om the sale of free ly disposable f u n ds (other than notes and coins) in the cu r renc ies of other coun t r ies of the French Franc Area; and w i th interest on the balances of Franc Area Accoun ts. The Cen t ral Bank may au tho r ize the credit- ing of other paymen ts. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a res ident of any coun try in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lge r ia ); for any 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norweg ian k rone r, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Final Depa r tu re Accoun ts may be opened for all fo re ign nationals res ident in A lge r ia, i r re spec t ive of mon e t a ry area, upon r e t u rn to the ir c o u n t ry of or ig in. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution t ran s fer to the credit of an account of a person res id ing in a coun t ry in the French Franc Area other than A lger ia; and for any amount due to the bank w i th which the account is kep t, for in teres t, commissions, or repayment of cap i tal c la ims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, in the name of any physical person residing in A lger ia, but not of A lge r ian n a t i o n a l i t y, who in tends to leave Algeria to r e t u rn to the coun t ry of origin. These accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th an am o u nt equ iv a l ent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person conce rned; w i th the proceeds f r om sales of real es ta te of the a c c o u nt ho lde r, p rov ided t h at the f u n ds a re pa id d i rec t ly by a no t a ry p u b l i c; w i th the proceeds of the sale of secu r i t ies th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of a b ank; and w i th any o ther p aym en t s, up to DA 2,000. The C en t r al B ank may au tho r ize the c r ed i t ing of o ther specific p a ym e n t s. These accounts may be debited w i thout p r ior app roval for ce r ta in paymen ts in A lger ia on beha lf of the account holder. Ou twa rd t ran s fe rs requ i re ind iv idual app rova l; cer ta in balances were released on September 25, 1974 for t ran s fer abroad. The Cen t ral B a nk m a i n t a i ns spec ial a c coun ts for c en t r al b anks of the coun t r i es w i th wh i ch A l g e r ia has conc luded p a ym e n ts ag r e em en t s. N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay m a i n t a in c e r t a in a c coun ts in A lg e r ia th at a re fed w i th the proceeds f r om the conv e r s ion of conve r t ib le cu r renc ies (comptes epargne-devises). Depo- sitors receive a p r em i um equ iva lent in p r inc ip le to one eighth of the am o u n ts depos i ted; in p rac t ice, the p rem ium is a flexible one en su r ing an effec t ive conver- sion ra te of F 1 = DA 1. W i thd rawa ls may be made in A lge r ian d i n a rs on ly. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cer ta in imports are prohibited regardless of or ig in. Ce r ta in commod i t ies are l ibera l ized and do not require impo rt licenses. A ll other impo r ts a re p e rm i t t ed, in pr inc ip le, in accordance w i th an a n n u al impo rt pro- g r am. This is imp lemen ted m a i n ly th rough global impo rt au tho r iza t ions (autorisations globales d'importation or AG I) gran ted to pub l ic en terpr ises or sometimes to private en terpr ises. Impo r ts made "without paymen t" (sans paiement), i.e., impor ts which do not invo lve compensation of any k ind, are exempt f rom all exchange and trade control forma l i t ies, but not f rom any absolute import prohibition, when valued at DA 1,000 or less. The Government in principle has the monopoly over the importation of many commodities through ONACO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH. SONACOME, and other s im i lar organ iza t ions, but impo r ts are not necessarily restricted to the monopo ly holders; these impor ts also are made w i t h in the f ramewo rk of an annu al impo rt program. ALGERIA All imports must prior to the transac t ion be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary import document must be presented and through which all pay- ments related to the transac t ion must be made. Unless the Cen tral Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import va lue, whichever is smaller. All ind iv idual import licenses requ ire the v isa of the Cen tral Bank. Un less earlier payment is to be made in accordance w i th the provisions of the impo rt license or of a com- mercial con tract approved by the au tho r i t ies, payment to the fo re ign exporter may be made only a f t er the s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts have been p resen ted to the b ank; the impo r t er m ay in th is case, a f t er h a v i ng dom ic i led the im p o r t, open a d o c um e n t a ry impo rt c red it payab le u p on p r e s e n t a t i on of the s h i p p i ng do cum en t s. Goods sub ject to im p o rt license and quo ta r e s t r i c t ions may be f r e e ly impo r ted in sma ll parcels, prov ided that the v a l ue of a sh ipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive mo re th an one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives d u r i ng the year do not exceed DA 240 in va lue. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les to a ll coun t r ies requ i re the approval of the Cen tral Bank. However, when suppor t- ing documen ts are presen ted, app roval may be g ran ted by au tho r i z ed b ank s, or some t imes by the Postal A dm i n- i s t r a t i o n, e i th er f r e e ly or up to spec if ied l im i ts for ce r ta in p a ym e n ts such as ( 1) those r e l a t i ng to app roved t rade t r a n s a c t i o ns and m a r i t ime con t rac ts, (2) t r a v el expenses, (3) t r a n s f e rs of sa la r ies and wages, (4) e d u c a t i o n al expenses, and (5) adv e r t i s ing expenses. For p a ym e n ts for wh ich the app rov al a u t h o r i ty has not been delegated, the g r a n t i ng of exchange must be authorized by e i ther the Central Bank or the M in i s t ry of F inance. Cer ta in pub l ic enterprises, however, wh ich receive special exchange a l loca t ions (budget devises) may use these f ree ly for paymen ts for specified inv i s ib le s, i n c l u d i ng t r a n s p o r t a t i on and other services con trac ted abroad. The t r a n s f er of f am i ly rem i t tances is suspended. Res iden ts of other c o u n t r i es w o r k i ng in A lg e r ia u n d er the p rog rams for techn ical coope ra t ion or for pub l ic en te rp r i ses and agenc ies or ce r ta in m ixed compan ies may t r a n s f er abroad a c e r t a in pe rcen tage of th e ir net sa lar ies, as fo l low s: 55 per cent for s ing le persons and ma r r ied persons h a v i ng the ir f am i l i es in A lge r ia; 75 per cent for persons h av ing the ir fam i l ies abroad; 85 per cent for employees of mines, the hydrocarbon sector, and the Sahara works; and 100 per cent for employees who spend the ir vaca t ions abroad ( the t rans fer be ing l im i ted to the du ra t ion of their leave and not to exceed one m o n t h ). For other wo rke rs who have con t rac ts w i th other emp loye rs and hold the necessary employ- ment documen t s, the amoun ts that may be t ran s fe r red are 35 per cen t, 55 per cen t, or 100 per cent. The pay- men ts mu st be t r a n s f e r r ed once a mon th on the basis 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA of the r emun e r a t ion for the previous mon th. Persons m a k i ng such t ran s fe rs of savings are not en t i t led to a l loca t ions for other personal t ran s fe rs (e.g., for educa- t ional purposes). For residents t r a v e l i ng by air or sea to o ther coun- tries, i n c l u d i ng countries in the French Franc Area, the f o r e i gn exchange a l loca t ion is e q u i v a l e nt to DA 300 a person a t r ip (DA 150 for ch i ld ren under 15) and is issued on p re sen ta t ion of a v a l id passport and t ravel documen t s; for ove r land t r av e l, the a l loca t ion is DA 300 a person a ca lendar semester for adu l ts and DA 150 for ch i ld ren und er 15. These a l loca t ions are not app l icab le to persons l i v i ng in border areas. A lg e r i an workers who have pe rm iss ion to imm i g r a te in to a fo re ign coun t ry are en t i t led to an exchange a l loca t ion u p on depa r tu re. Such persons, when on ho l id ay in A lger ia, may upon r e t u rn abroad repu rchase fo re ign exchange equ iv a l ent to one fifth of the amount sold upon a r r iva l, but not exceeding DA 1,000. Foreign exchange for p r iva te bu s ine ss t r a v e l, un less deb i ted to an ED AC or EDAB Account (see sec t ion on Expor ts and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ), is sub ject to a u t h o r i z a t i on by the Cen t ral B ank and alloca- t ions c a n n ot exceed DA 1,500 a t r i p. P i l g r ims t r av e l ing to Saudi A r a b ia may ob ta in Saudi A rab ian riyals up to the equ iva lent of DA 3,400 a per- son; the a l l o c a t i on can be taken up in the f o rm of a check by those t r a v e l i ng by air or sea. Trave lers may take out A lge r ian d i n ar bankno tes up to DA 50 a per- son. Non r e s id ent t rave le rs may also re-export any fo r- e ign cu r r en cy dec lared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expo r ts to I s rae l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted. Ce r ta in expor ts, i n c l u d i ng used e q u i pm e nt and m a ch in e ry, l ives tock, f i r e a rm s, amm u n i t i o n, explo- sives, and ce r ta in rad io e q u i pm e n t, a re p roh ib i ted regardless of d e s t in a t ion. A ll other expor ts m ay, in pr inc ip le, be e f fec ted f ree ly, w i thout an export l icense, w i th the excep t ion of exports to coun t r ies w i th wh ich A lg e r ia has b i l a t e r al paymen ts ag reemen ts. Some com- mod i t ies may be expo r ted, sub ject to i n d i v i d u al p r ior approva l, on the bas is of l ink ed t r an s a c t ions (trans- actions liees) i n v o l v i ng at the same t ime an au tho r ized impo rt t ran sac t ion. Expor ts must be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r i z ed b a n k. Sales on con s ignment are expressly sub ject to a u t h o r i z a- t ion by the M i n i s t ry of F inance and reg i s t ra t ion mu st a lways t ake place pr ior to customs c lea rance. The proceeds of exports of commod i t ies must be repa t r ia ted imm ed i a t e ly a f t er co l lec t ion; the due da te of the export con tract must not be la ter t h an 60 days fo l- lowing sh ipmen t, except when p r ior au tho r i z a t ion f rom the Cen t ral Bank is ob ta ined. Those pe t ro leum com- panies holding m ineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds f rom the ir exports of hyd roca rbons ca lcu- lated on the basis of a con t r a c tu al price per ba r rel that is fixed by agreement w i th the compan ies concerned. 34 For one pe t ro leum company ho ld ing m ine ral rights, however, there a re d i f f e r ent r ep a t r i a t ion requ i remen ts. Exporters in the p r iva te sector may re ta in 2 per cent (1 per cent for cons ignment sales) of the export pro- ceeds of all commod i t ies other th an hydrocarbons in spec ial accoun ts, un less exports are made on a compen- sa t ion basis (echanges compenses). These accounts are of two k ind s —ED AC (Exportateurs-dinars convertibles} and EDAB (Exportateurs-dinars bilateraux). Ba lances in these accoun ts are not t r an s f e r ab le and may be used by the holder h im se lf for bus iness t rave l, ce r ta in services of fo re ign techn ic ian s, and impo r ts of spare parts; bal- ances in excess of DA 100,000 in e i ther type of account a re in conv e r t ib l e. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om inv i s ib l es must be repa t r ia ted and sur- rende red. Savings repa t r ia ted in the fo rm of convertible cu r r en c i es by A lg e r i ans w o r k i ng ab road a re e l ig ib le for an "encou ragement p r em i um ." There are no res t r ic t ions on the im p o rt of f o r e i gn b a n k n o t e s, co ins (except gold c o i n s ), checks, and le t te rs of c red i t, but non res iden ts, i n c l u d i ng those of A lge r ian n a t i o n a l i t y, mu st declare such ho ld ings wh en they en ter A lge r ia. Res ident t rave l- ers may re impo rt A lger ian d i n ar bankno tes up to DA 50 a person. Non re s ident t rave le rs are not p e rm i t t ed to b r i ng in A l g e r i an b ankno t e s. Capital Res iden ts a re obliged to r ep a t r i a te and su r render c ap i t al assets (or the sales proceeds t h e r e o f) held or acqu ired ou ts ide A lger ia. Cap i tal t r an s f e rs to any desti- n a t i on a re sub ject to i n d i v i d u al l icen se; res iden ts a re not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed to a cqu i re c ap i t al assets ou ts ide A lge r ia. A ll bo r row ing abroad or f r om non r e s id en ts is sub ject to pr ior app roval by the M i n i s t er of F inance. A new Inv e s tm ent Code, supe r sed ing t h at of 1963, was p r om u l g a t ed by O r d i n a n ce No. 66-284 of Septem- ber 15, 1966. It p rov ides for s ta te gu a r an t e es in respect of fo r e ign i n v e s tm e n ts of more th an DA 500,000 in the i n d u s t r i al and tou r i st sectors. The new code provides for a r e t r a n s f er g u a r a n t ee in respect of the sale or l iqu i- d a t i on proceeds of inve s ted fo r e ign c a p i t a l, and estab- l ishes that p ro f it r em i t t an c es on such inv e s tm en ts w i ll be p e rm i t t ed up to 15 per c ent a n n u a l ly of the f o r e i gn c a p i t al o r i g i n a l ly inv e s t ed. Tax f a c i l i t i es may also be g r an t ed, and i n v e s tm e n ts of more t h an DA 5 m i l l ion may be g iv en exc lu s ive r igh ts in a spec if ied geographic a rea and may be accorded t a r i ff p ro tec t ion. Rem i t tances of p ro f i ts and r e t r a n s f e rs of c ap i t al a re p e rm i t t ed on ly in respect of i n v e s tm e n ts app roved u n d er O rd in an ce No. 66-284. Gold R e s id en ts may pu rcha se, ho ld, and sell gold co ins in A lger ia for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Under the te rms of O rd inance No. 70-6 of J a n u a ry 16, 1970, unwo rked ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold for indus t r ial and professional use is to be dis- tr ibu ted by the Agence Na t iona le pour la D i s t r i b u t i on et la T rans fo rma t ion de TOr et des Autres Me taux Precieux ( A G E N O R ). This agency is also au tho r ized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and dis- tribute any other precious metal, and, w i th in the exchange con trol regu la t ions, to impo rt and export any precious metal, inc lud ing gold. Fu r the rmo re, locally produced gold must be sold to this agency. Impo r ts of gold for use by den t is ts and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, which receives import licenses f r om the M in i s- try of F inance and the Cen t ral Bank. Changes during 1976 January 1. Fo l low ing the e x p i r a t i on on December 3 1, 1975 of the bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina, Hunga ry, R om a n i a, and Yugos lav ia, se t t lemen ts w i th these coun t r i es were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. O rd inance No. 75-93 of December 3 1, 1975, con ta in ing the budget law for 1976, came in to force. The suspension of import du ty a n d / or produc t ion ALGERIA tax applicable in 1975 to var ious basic foods tuffs was extended u n t il December 3 1, 1976. Impo r ts "w i thout paymen t" of equ ipment goods and professional accesso- ries by A lge r ians who have been res ident abroad at least five years became subject to impo rt du t ies and taxes; these were payable in convertible currencies. Impor ts "without paymen t" of all types of au tomob i les also became subject to the r u l i ng import duties and taxes, payab le in conver t ib le cu r renc ies. February 10. A t rade ag reement was s igned w i th Ind ia. February 20. Two orders were gazetted c o n t a i n i ng new lists of prohibited imports and restricted imports. These orders had been issued on May 20, 1975. April 30. The b i l a t e r al paymen ts ag reement w i th Egypt expired. May 2. A long - te rm t rade agreement was signed w i th Egypt. May 8. A technical cooperation agreement was signed w i th the Comoros. May 10. A ma r i t ime sh ipp ing agreement was signed w i th Cape Verde. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, J976)1 Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par va lue for the A rgen t ine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. At the end of 1976 all exchange t ran sac t ions took place in a free exchange market w i th the exception of transactions relating to foreign loans covered by forward exchange operations ("swaps" or pases) approved and guaranteed by the Central Bank of Argentina. On December 30, 1976 the buy ing and selling rates in the free market were $a 272 and $a 277 per US$1, respec- tively, and the exchange rate for transactions re la t ing to loans covered by swaps (including the interest on such loans) was $a 140 per US$1. Exchange transac t ions between banks and ind iv idu a l s, other than transactions in banknotes, are subject to a tax of 1 per cent (10 per m i l l) on sales to cus tomers and 3 per mill on purchases. Forward exchange purchases by private firms are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transac- tion and may only be under taken through the inter- mediary of the Central Bank. Swap operations must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior approval and are subject to a prem ium of 57 per cent which is payable in advance. Argentina forma l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for th is purpose. These authorized institutions include exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institutions may be subject to separate regu la t ion. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between A rgen t ina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts m a i n- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i- 1 With effect f rom J a n u a ry 28, 1977, a numb er of impo r tant changes took place in the exchange system. Thus, the m i n im um external f inanc- ing requ iremen ts for imports were eased; the period w i th in which export proceeds must be surrendered was lengthened; the exchange proceeds f r om income, o ther than f r om expor ts, earned abroad by resident individuals or firms, ceased to be subject to su r rende r; the prescription of currency rules were simplified; allocations for travel and certain other current invisibles were increased; and the export of securities was completely freed. Also, the Central Bank delegated to the authorized institutions some of its approval and control powers. 36 la te ral c lea r ing system.2 T ransac t ions w i th other coun- tries must be settled in convertible currencies. Proceeds f rom exports to 14 coun tr ies in Wes tern Europe and to Canada and Japan must be received either in the cur- rency of the impo r t ing coun try or in U.S. dollars. Import paymen ts to these countries also may be made e i ther in the cu r rency of the coun try concerned or in U.S. do l la r s. A ll se t t lemen ts w i th other coun tr ies w i th which no reciprocal credit agreement is in force must be made or received in U.S. do l la rs or in any of the 16 currencies referred to previously. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in fore ign exchange in the n ame of any non r e s id en t, pro- vided that the accounts are fed w i th remittances of conve r t ib le currenc ies on ly. Ba lances on non res ident accounts may be used free ly for any purpose, in Argen- t ina or abroad. T rans fe rs between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment of exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange l icens ing. However, ce r ta in impo rt suspensions are in effect.8 In add i t ion, all imports by the private or public sector requ i re a sworn dec lara t ion of need (declaration jurada de necesidad) subm i t ted by the importer to the Na t ional Import Board. Fur thermore, all public sector impo r ts are screened by a special body, the Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial, and must be approved by the Secretariat of State for Commerce. The declara- tions of eight foreign-owned automobile assembly plants are au toma t ica l ly authorized if they have received the prior approval of the Secretariat of State for Industrial Development. Imports of some vehicles, trac tors, and engines are prohibited. Imports of used goods have been suspended un t il December 31, 1977, but used capital goods may be imported if authorization is obtained from the Secre- ta r iat of State for Indus t r ial Development. M i n im um financing requirements have been estab- lished for capital goods valued at more than US$25,000. Payment against de l ive ry of shipping documen ts for transactions in excess of US$25,000 is limited to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue, of which 5 per cent may be paid in advance at the time of fo rma l iz ing the purchase. Depending upon the import value, m i n im um grace periods rang ing from 6 mon ths to 12 months and m i n im um ma tur i t ies of up to five years for transactions of up to US$1 m i l l i on are requ i red on the ba lance. The 2 With e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977 s e t t l em en ts w i th Ecuador also took place on th is basis. n At the end of 1976, these prohibitions were only applicable to automobiles, alcoholic beverages w i th high alcohol content, cigarettes, pe r fumes, and fu r r i e ry items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Cen t ral Bank must be con su l ted to d e t e rm i ne accep ta- b le f inanc ing t e rms for impo r ts v a lu ed at more t h an US$1 m i l l ion. Cap i tal goods im p o r ts by the pub l ic sector requ ire prior approval by the Cen tral Bank. For most goods not covered by the p r e c ed ing p rov i s ion s, m i n im um f o r e i gn f i n a n c i ng of 180 d ays is r e q u i r ed for 50 per cent of the f .o .b. v a l u e. The C e n t r al B a nk may approve financing of less t h an 180 d ays for a la rger percen tage of the f .o .b. v a l u e .4 Pu rchase of Fo re ign T rade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds (Bonos de Inve r s ion del Come rc io Ex t e r ior or B ICE ), equ al to 50 per cent of the f .o .b. v a l ue of the goods, is o b l i g a t o ry for m a ny impo r t s. These bonds are indexed to the p r ice of A d j u s t a b le N a t i o n al Bonds, wh i ch in t u rn a re indexed to the i n d u s t r i al who le sa le p r ice ind ex. The Fore ign Trade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds, issued in m u l t i p l es of $a 1,000, are to be purchased e i ther at the t ime a le t ter of cred it is opened or, in any case, at least 180 days b e fo re im p o rt p aym ent is due, and a re th en redeemed at the t ime the payment is made, the proceeds of the bond be ing made ava i lab le to m a ke the pu rcha se of f o r e i gn exchange. Exempt f r om th is r e q u i r em e nt a re the f o l l ow i ng ca te- gories of im p o r t s: pub l ic sector impo r t s; c a p i t al goods be ing f inanced for more t h an 180 day s; goods impo r ted f rom LAFTA coun t r i e s, if the goods are inc luded in A rgen t ina 's concessional l is ts; i ron ore, ce r ta in o ther ores, and c e r t a in i ron and steel p roduc ts impo r t ed by en te rp r ises p a r t i c i p a t i ng in the A r g e n t i ne I ron and Steel P lan; books and o ther p r i n t ed m a t t e r; im p o r ts for au to- mob i le producers; j u te tex t i les; and ce r ta in types of iron and steel plates .5 Impo rt taxes in c lude the f o l l ow i n g: a c o n s u l ar fee of 3 per cent payab le n o rm a l ly in fo re ign c u r r e n cy on most impo rt invoices; s t a t i s t i c al taxes of 1 V2 per cent or %> of 1 per cent app l icab le to a ll impo r t s; a s t amp d u ty of 0.6 per cen t; taxes rang ing f r om 4 per cent to 10 per cent on impo r ts of paper p roduc ts, c e r t a in types of t imber and t imb er p roduc ts and forest produc ts; and sales taxes rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 22 per cent. All m a r i t ime impo r ts are sub ject to a tax of 12 per cent on f r e igh t, unless t ranspo r ted in A r g e n t i ne vessels. Authorized b anks a re p roh ib i ted f r om open ing docu- men ta ry credits in respect of public sector impo r ts (other t h an for those o r i g i n a t i ng in LAFTA coun t r i e s) except w i th pr ior au tho r iza t ion f r om the Gov e rnm en t. Fu r the rmo re, the Cen t ral Bank requ i res au tho r ized i n s t i- tu t ions to advise it of all requested paymen ts cover ing imports for wh ich no b a n k i ng documen ts are subm i t t ed, in which case Central Bank app roval is requ i red. The same requ i rement app l ies when documen ts subm i t ted do not specify the date of p aym en t, or if the date o r ig ina l ly indicated by the correspondent has been changed, and when bills or d ra f ts expire more th an five days pr ior to the date on which the t r a n s f er is requ ired. 4 The m i n im um fo re ign f i n a n c i ng r equ i r em ent was e l im ina ted for a ll noncap i tal goods impo r ts w i th e f fect f r om M a r ch 1, 1977. 5 The r e q u i r em e nt to pu rcha se Fo re ign T rade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds was e l im ina ted in M a r ch 1977. ARGENTINA Payments for Invisibles W i th the exception m a i n ly of t ravel expenses, f am i ly r em i t t a n c e s, and rem i t tances of prof i ts, d iv idends, royal- ties, and technical fees, paymen ts for inv is ib les may be m ade f r e e l y. However, a l loca t ions of f o r e i gn exchange for l i c e n s i ng fees, roya l t ies, and t e chn i c al services a re sub ject to p r ior app roval of the con t rac ts by the Na t ional Reg is t ry of Contracts, Licenses, and T r a n s f er of Tech- no logy. Persons and f i rms e l ig ib le for r em i t t an c es of p ro f i t s, d i v i d e n d s, and roy a l t i es a re not g r a n t ed fo re ign ex ch ange in am o u n ts g rea ter t h an US$1,000 for each t r a n s a c t i o n, but in s t e ad a re p e rm i t t ed to pu rchase nego- t i a b le f ive -year U.S. d o l l a r - d e n om i n a t ed Ex t e rn al Bonds issued by the G o v e r nm e n t .0 These may be f r e e ly expor ted and impo r t ed. A n n u al r em i t t an c es of p ro f i ts and d iv i- dends in excess of 12 per cent of the reg is te red am o u nt of the fo re ign inv e s tm ent are subject to a special tax of 15 per cent to 25 per cent (see section on C a p i t a l, below). The sa le of exchange for p r iv a te t ravel ab road nor- m a l ly is l im i t ed to US$2,500 a person a t r i p, or, for n e ighbo r ing coun t r i e s, US$500 a person a t r i p. Of the t r av el a l l o c a t i o n, up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$250 may be t a k en out in the f o rm of b ankno t e s, t rave le rs checks, or the c u r r e n cy of the c o u n t ry of d e s t i n a t i o n; th is l im it is US$50 for t r av el to n e i g h b o r i ng coun t r i e s. The r em a i n d er of the a l lowance may be d r awn by the t r a v e l er f r om co r responden ts' a c coun ts ab road. Travel- e rs m ay t a ke out any am o u nt in dome s t ic bankno tes and co ins except gold co ins. Exports and Export Proceeds A n um b er of expor ts are p roh ib i t ed or res t r ic ted. M i n i m um expo rt prices ( r e f e r e n ce p r i c e s) a re estab- l i shed for m a ny a g r i c u l t u r al and l ive s tock expor ts as a bas is for the payment of du t ies and the su r r end er of export proceeds. The f u ll f .o .b. proceeds f r om a ll expor ts must be r ep a t r i a t ed and su r r end e r ed; the pro- ceeds mu st not be less t h an the re fe rence p r ice or, if there is no re fe rence price, the f.o.b. v a lue declared on the s h i p p i ng p e rm i t. Expor ters of t r a d i t i o n al commod i- ties are requ i red to receive the f o r e i gn exchange pro- ceeds e i ther before sh ipm ent or u n d er an irrevocab le documen ta ry cred it payable aga inst sh ipp ing documen ts in A r g e n t i n a, and they must se ll these proceeds w i t h in 10 w o r k i ng days a f t er sh ipm en t. The proceeds f r om p romo ted exports ( l i s ted in C i r c u l ar R.C. 424) mu st be su r rende red w i t h in 180 days of s h i pm e n t, and p aym en ts may be received aga inst d r a f t s, in a d d i t i on to the f o rms of p aym ent prescribed for t r a d i t i o n al exports. There are separate a r rangemen ts for exports of books, news- papers, periodicals, and sheet mus ic. Ce r ta in n o n t r a d i- t i o n al exports are e l ig ib le for rebates (reintegro and reembolso). Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on reference prices. The tax must be paid " Th is r e q u i r em e nt was e l im i n a t ed w i th e f f e ct f r om Ma rch 10, 1977. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA before sh ipment of the merchandise or w i th in the fol- lowing 31 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its paymen t. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the f re igh t. Cer ta in other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These inc lude a 2 per cent tax, the pro- ceeds of which are destined for the Na t ional In s t i tu te for Ag r icu l tu ral and Livestock Technology, on exports of ag r icu l tu ral and livestock products, and a tax of 1 per cent or 2l/z per cent, depend ing on the product, levied on grain exports and earmarked for the Na t ional G ra in Board. Many exports, particularly non trad i t ional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various k inds. The Central Bank has established a system of special f inanc ing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, w i th a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services. The National Export Credit Insurance Commission provides credit insurance for exports of capital goods, consumer durab le goods, and certain other consumer goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f r om inv is ib les must be su r rende red w i t h in 30 days of receipt. Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly any am o u nt in domes t ic or fo re ign bankno tes and coins. Capital Exchange proceeds f r om cap i tal in f lows received by res iden ts mu st be su r rende red w i t h in 30 days of rece ip t. Proceeds f rom fo re ign loans w i thout exchange cover must be sold in the f r ee ma rke t. There are in general no l im i t a t ions on inw a rd cap i tal t r an s f e rs by res iden ts or non res iden ts, a l though res iden ts may not borrow for less than 180 days. Ou twa rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs are res tr ic ted. A rgen t ine Ex te rnal Bonds may be exported free ly. Sales of exchange in connec t ion w i th inve s tmen t s, placements, or deposits w i th in A rg en t ina or abroad requ i re the prior app roval of the Central Bank. A rgen t ine indu s t r ial or commerc ial f irms requ ire the au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank to enter in to swap opera t ions under which loans of 180 days' ma tu r i ty may be accepted in a convertible currency. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of Octo- ber 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. A new Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 21.382 of August 13, 1976), which has replaced the norms of the previous one (Decree-Law No. 19.151 of Ju ly 30, 1971), governs all aspects of investments of foreign capi- tal a im ing at the promotion, expansion, or improvement of economic activities. Investments may be made in free ly convertible fo re ign cu r rency; new or used cap i tal goods and the ir spare parts and accessories; prof i ts and capital in Argentine pesos be long ing to foreign inves tors, provided that these pesos are t ran s fe rab le ab road; capi- talization of external credits in free ly conver t ib le fo re ign currency; in tang ib le assets (bienes inmateriales); and any other fo rm acceptable to the imp lemen t ing au tho r i ty or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. 38 For purposes of the ir au tho r iza t ion, three types of investments are distinguished, as follows: ( 1) Subject to prior approval by the Na t ional Execu- tive are (a) investments in the defense and national secur i ty sectors; in public services in the field of health, posts, electricity, gas, t ranspo r ta t ion, and telecommuni- cations; and in radio t ransm i t te rs, television stations, newspapers, periodicals and magazines, energy, educa- t ion, banks, insurance, and financial institutions; (b) the t rans fer of capital to an existing local firm, when this implies its conversion into a "domestic firm with foreign capital"; (c) investments whose object is the acquisition of participations in the capital of existing local firms that belong to na t ional investors (exceptionally, and when a clear benefit to the national economy results); (d) investments in any sector when they are effected in the fo rm of used capital goods; when special or promo- t ional benefits are requested that can only be granted by the Na t ional Executive; when the amount of the investment exceeds US$5 m i l l ion or its equivalent in other foreign currencies; and when the investor is a for- eign state or a foreign jur id ical person under public law. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) the rein- ves tment of prof i ts f r om inves tmen ts of properly regis- tered fo re ign cap i tal in the -firms whe re the prof i ts arise, prov ided that th is does not resu lt in the conversion of the rece iv ing firm in a "domestic firm w i th fore ign capital"; and (b) new inve s tmen ts in f ree ly convertible fo re ign cu r rency, provided that they do not exceed in any single year 10 per cent of the registered fore ign cap i tal of the rece iv ing f irm, that they are in tended for the ac t iv i t ies which it a l ready is engaged in, and that they do not convert the firm in to a "domestic firm w i th fo re ign capital." ( 3) A ll o ther fo re ign inve s tmen ts are sub ject to prior app roval by the imp lemen t ing a u t h o r i t y, wh ich must give its decision w i th in 120 days f r om the da te on which the inve s tment proposal is subm i t ted. Foreign inves tmen ts ex is t ing prior to the en t ry in to fo rce of the Foreign Inves tment Law are governed by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscription and def in i t ive recogn i t ion. Existing and new fore ign investments, as well as all capital movements re la t ing thereto, must be recorded in the Register of Foreign Investments, wh ich is kept by the Cen tral Bank. Registered fore ign inves tmen ts may generally be repa- tr ia ted three years a f t er en t ry in to A rgen t ina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to t ran s fer profits and to repatriate cap i tal related to properly registered investments can only be suspended by the Na t ional Executive when ex te rnal paymen ts d i f f i cu l t i es ex is t. In th at case, fo re ign inves tors are en t i t led to receive, for the r em i t t an ce of p ro f i ts abroad, the equ iva lent of the sum to be t ran s- fe r red in ex te rnal pub l ic debt secur i t ies d enom in a t ed in fo re ign cu r rency, at the ra te of in terest r u l i ng in the in t e rn a t ion al ma rke t, aga inst prov is ion of the equ iva lent in A rgen t ine pesos. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Profits in money or in k ind on registered fore ign capital are subject to a special tax when they exceed 12 per cent of registered capital. This tax is 15 per cent on remitted profits of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of registered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of regis- tered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more than 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with fo re ign capital" is subject to special provisions. These have been imp lemen ted by decisions of the Cen- tral Bank and by Decree No. 2253/76. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other fo rm in A rgen t ina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in A rgen t ina to i n s t i t u t i o ns and houses au tho r ized to deal in fo re ign exchange, but the regu la- tions pe rm i t t ing nonb ank residents to buy gold coins and bars f r om these f irms are in suspense. Impo r ts of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical d u ty of %o of 1 per cent, and those by other users are sub ject in add i t ion to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by in s t i tu t ions and houses au tho r ized to engage in exchange t ran sac t ion s; they r equ i re the p r ior app roval of the Cen t ral Bank and the proceeds m u st be received in conve r t ib le currenc ies. Changes during 1976 January 1. The s ta t is t ical tax on impo r ts of 3 per cent was app l ied to all goods. P rev ious ly, th is ra te app l ied only to goods sub ject to du ty, w h i le o thers were sub ject to a tax of 3 per m i l l. (Decree No. 4215 /75 .) January 5. The exchange ra te gua ran tee r equ i r em ent was wa ived for impo r te rs who d id not have s u f f i c i e nt f u n ds to make the necessary depos i t. They could now m ake the impo rt p aym ent at the exchange ra te p reva i l- ing on the date of the actual t r an s f er p lus 20 per cent. (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 5 .) January 5. Au tho r ized exchange dea le rs and exchange houses were empowered to buy and sell fo r e ign exchange for t r an s a c t ions re la ted to t ravel at f r e e ly nego t ia ted exchange ra tes. Exchange offices and exchange agencies were allowed to buy fo r e ign exchange f r om the pub l ic on the same basis but were r equ i r ed to sell the fo re ign exchange to au tho r ized dea le rs and exchange houses. Au thor ized exchange dealers we re requ i red to sell the ir su rp lus pos i t ions to the exchange houses, wh i le the exchange houses had to use the ir s u r p l us fo r e ign exchange positions to pu rchase Ex t e rn al Bonds. (M i n i s- try of Economy Resolution No. 6.) January 5. The exchange a l loca t ions for t ravel abroad were increased to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for t ravel to ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies and to US$3,000 a person a t r ip for o ther trave l. Ch i ld r en between the ages of 3 and 12 were en t i t l ed to one ha lf of these am o u n t s. (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 6.) ARGENTINA January 5. Remittances of d iv idends, prof i ts, royalties, and technical assistance fees accrued af ter J u ly 1, 1975, as well as approved cap i tal repa t r ia t ion, hencefor th could be effected either in foreign exchange or by means of External Bonds, to be de te rm ined by the authorities, at the average of the peso se l l ing prices of External Bonds commun ica ted to the Central Bank by the exchange houses for the previous three w o r k i ng days. In practice, Ex ternal Bonds con t inued to be the on ly means of mak ing these paymen ts. (Cen t ral Bank Circu- lar R.C. 598; M in i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 8.) January 7. Circular No. T316 prov ided imp l em en t ing in s t ruc t ions for the purchase of External Bonds against su rp lus fo r e ign exchange positions in accordance w i th M i n i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 7 of Janua ry 5. January 8. Surplus fore ign exchange positions in the free ma rket accumulated by commercial banks had to be sold to the exchange houses (C i r cu l ar R.C. 588 and M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 7 ). January 12. The peso was depreciated f r om $a 60.80 to $ a 6 3 . 10 per US$1 ( b u y i n g) in the f inanc ial market and f r om $a 86.40 to $a 89.70 per US$1 ( b u y i n g) in the special f inanc ial ma rke t. January 15. Add i t ional t a r i ff preferences were ex tended to U rugu ay (Decree No. 1 ). January 19. A series of resolutions substantially altered the coverage of the exchange ma rke ts. The f inanc ial m a rk et ra te hence fo r th applied on ly to t rans- ac t ions related to financial loans. The exchange rate applicable to imports and to exports w i thout a reference price, i n c l u d i ng exports f rom the special customs terr i- tory, wou ld be the financial rate p lus 20 per cent. For exports w i th a re fe rence price, 3 per cent of the refer- ence price as well as any proceeds in excess of the reference price could be sold in the f ree ma rke t, while 97 per cent of the re fe rence price was to be sold at the financial ra te p lus 20 per cen t. The special financial ra te wou ld cover f r e ight and in su r an ce and other trade- related services. All other transactions were allocated to the f ree m a r k e t. The tax of $a 4 per US$1 on fo r- e ign exchange purchases by trave lers was abolished. The op t ional exchange rate gua ran tee was lowered f rom 100 per cent to 50 per cent of the f .o .b. v a lu e, and the co r respond ing gu a r an t ee deposit was reduced accord- i n g l y. The charge for exchange cover was e l im ina ted. (M i n i s t ry of Economy R e so lu t ions Nos. 35, 36, 37, and 80.) January 19. Export taxes were increased by 5 per cent and export subsidies were reduced by 5 per cent for most export i tems; List II exports received a 15 per cent sub s idy. For exports to non t r ad i t ion al ma rke ts or f r om the special customs area, taxes were reduced by 5 per cent and subs id ies increased by 5 per cent. Exports f r om the special customs area also received an exchange rate 20 per cent more favo rab le than that in the financial ma rke t. (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 45 and 46.) January 19. Paymen ts and receipts in respect of the 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA chartering of ships were shifted to the special f inanc ial market (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 72 and Circular R.C. 604). January 26. The peso was depreciated from $a 63.10 to $a 65.50 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market and from $a 89.70 to $a93 .10 per US$1 ( b u y i n g) in the special financial market (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 59). January 26. For all exports not subject to a refer- ence price, 3 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue could be sold at the free market ra te (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolu- tion No. 69). January 28. The export prohibition on barley was suspended (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 78 ). January 28. Importers who had submitted sworn declarations of import need for the first half of 1976 were authorized to import 40 per cent of the va lue of their imports in the appropriate base year, 1974 in most cases. If, however, the declaration had been accom- panied by a customs license, au tho r iza t ion was granted to import for 100 per cent of the va lue given in the customs license. (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 42.) January 30. Central Bank Circular R.C. 605 extended un t il February 27 the period du r ing which new swap agreements could be entered in to, and en t i t led the holder of the swap to special credit fac i l i t ies equal to 40 per cent of the amount of the swap. February 10. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 65.50 to $a68 .70 per US$1 ( b u y i n g) in the financial market and from $a93.10 to $a 97.70 per US$1 (buy ing) in the special financial marke t. February 72. The exchange allocations for travel abroad were reduced to US$300 a person a trip for travel to neighboring countries and to US$1,500 a person a trip for other countries. Children between the ages of 3 and 12 were entitled to one half of these amoun ts. (Circular R.C. 609.) February 12. The m in imum grace period for imports of capital goods valued at US$200,000 or more was reduced f rom two years to one year. For all capital goods subject to m i n im um financing terms, the period for the calculation of the relevant cumulative total values was reduced from one year to six months. (Cir- cu lar R.C. 610.) February 16. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 68.70 to $a71 .00 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market and from $a 97.70 to $a 101.00 per US$1 (buying) in the special financial market. February 23. The peso was depreciated from $a 71.00 to $a 74.30 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market and from $a 101.00 to $a 105.70 per US$1 (buy ing) in the special financial marke t. February 27. Decree No. 837 delegated to the Minis- ter of Economy the authority to de term ine the condi- tions, markets, and exchange rates for all foreign exchange transactions and empowered the Minister to delegate this authority to the Central Bank. 40 March 4. The peso was depreciated from $a 74.30 to $a 76.70 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market and f rom $a 105.70 to $a 109.10 per US$1 (buy ing) in the special financial marke t. March 8. The financial market and the special finan- cial market were abolished. A new official market was established, with an exchange rate of $a 140 per US$1. The official ma rket covered financial loan transactions, the f.o.b. va lue of imports, 97 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue or of the reference price of exports, and trade- related services. All other t ran sac t ions were allocated to the free marke t, where the exchange ra te was a fluctuating one. (Paymen ts for royalties, profits, and d iv idends con t inued to be made through sales of External Bonds, at effec t ive exchange rates close to the free ma rket ra te .) The exchange rate guaran tee deposit system was abolished, but firms were authorized to purchase indexed public bonds as se lf- insurance against exchange r isk. Most exceptions to the 40 per cent advance impo rt deposit r equ i r em ent were cancelled. The only imports which remained exempt were those listed in Circulars R.C. 371 of December 31, 1969 and R.C. 376 of June 15, 1969; these exemptions included public sector imports, impor ts of LAFTA origin, phar- maceuticals, and newsprint. March 8. The system of special domestic credit fac i l i t ies for firms con trac t ing new swaps was abolished. March 8. Export taxes were increased from a range of 0-40 per cent to a range of 28-56 per cent. Export items whose proceeds had formerly been sold in the financial market and had received subsidies of 0-35 per cent were now subject to taxes of 3-28 per cent. For goods whose proceeds had been sold in the special financial marke t, those former ly receiving subsidies of 0-20 per cent were now subject to taxes of 0-17 per cent, and those former ly receiving subsidies of 25-35 per cent now received subsidies of 4-12 per cen t. (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 621.) March 11. Goods imported under special preferential regimes f rom Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay were exempted from the obligation of being included in sem iannual import programs (Resolution No. 35 of the Secretariat of State for Foreign T rade ). March 17. Imports of certain chemicals were sus- pended un t il the end of the year (M in is t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 128). March 19. A new quota for imports of na tural and synthetic rubber was set for the remainder of 1976 (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 135). March 24. Exchange markets were closed and trans- actions in External Bonds were prohibited un t il fur ther notice (Central Bank Commun ica t ion No. 69 ). April 2. Export duties were lowered and export reim- bursements were raised across the board (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 8 ). April 5. The premium on swap transactions in respect of short-term borrowing abroad was increased from 32 per cent to 40 per cent. The premium was now ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payable in advance ra ther th an at m a tu r i ty. (Central Bank Telephone Commun i c a t ion No. 3525.) April 5. Exchange marke ts were reopened (Cen t ral Bank C omm u n i c a t i on No. 79 ). April 5. M ix ing rates were es tab l ished for exchange t ransac t ions in respect of trade and trade-related trans- actions. Exports, List B imports (cap i tal goods, spare parts, and consumer goods ), and trade-related invisibles were settled 65 per cent in the o f f i c i al m a rk et and 35 per cent in the free m a r k e t. For impo r ts of i n d u s t r i al raw ma ter ia ls and in te rmed ia te goods, the correspond ing ratios were 83 per cent and 17 per c en t. L ist A impo r ts ( fue l s, lub r ican t s, and n ew s p r i n t ), as we ll as f in an c i al loans and in terest thereon, r em a in ed at the o f f i c i al exchange ra te, and o ther t r a n s a c t i o ns c o n t i n u ed to be settled in the free ma rke t. P aym en ts for royalties, profits, and d iv idends continued to be made by means of sales of Ex te rnal Bonds, at e f f e c t ive exchange ra tes close to the free ma rket rate. (C i r cu l ar R.C. 628.) April 13. Imports of pure s u l f ur were exempted f rom advance deposit (Telephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3532 ). May 6. Exports of works of art and art objects were freed of all export duties and charges, and the exchange proceeds were sh if ted to the f ree m a r k et (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 56 ). May 10. The prem ium on swap t ran sac t ions was increased to 47 per cent (Telephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3547). May 10. The m ix ing rates for t rade and trade-related transactions were modified. Exports, List B impo r t s, and trade-related inv is ib les were settled 55 per cent in the official ma rket and 45 per cent in the free ma rke t. An Import List D ( c o n t a i n i ng ce r ta in consumer goods) was introduced; these goods were settled in the free market. List A imports con t inued to be settled at the official exchange ra te, and o ther impo r ts were settled 75 per cent through the official ma rket and 25 per cent through the free ma rke t. Import paymen ts that had to be settled in the free ma rket could be made in cash against surrender of sh ipp ing documen ts up to 15 per cent of the total f.o.b. va lue. (Circular R.C. 631 .) May 10. Importers were required to purchase Foreign Trade Inves tment Bonds; exempt were cap i tal goods w i th import f inanc ing exceeding 180 days and pub l ic sector imports. The bonds were to be purchased at the t ime of opening a letter of credit, or, for imports f inanced by other means, either at the t ime of placing a purchase order, or not later than 180 days before p aym ent was made. The amount of each bond (expressed in multiples of $a 1,000) was to equal the f.o.b. va lue of the impo r t. It would be redeemed at the t ime of m ak ing an import payment and its proceeds were to be used to make that payment. The nominal peso va lue of the bonds was to be indexed on the price of National Adjustable Bonds, which was pegged to the index of non ag r i cu l tu r al whole- sale prices. (Circular R.C. 632.) ARGENTINA May 10. A number of items were added to the List B impor ts, inc lud ing certain types of livestock, machines, and vehicles (Circular R.C. 633). May 10. Several add i t ional items were exempted f rom the import prohibitions (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 63 ). May 12. The export prohibition on viscose rayon ya rn was term ina ted (Resolution No. 33 of the Secre- t a r i at of State for Foreign T rade ). May 13. Sworn declarations of import need for the first ha lf of 1976 were au toma t ica l ly revalidated for impo r ts du r ing the second semester by private sector importers. Public sector importers, however, were required to subm it sworn declarations for the second semester. Impo r te rs ceased to be subject to the rule that no more than 50 per cent of the s em i a n n u al programs could be imported in the first quar ter of the semester and t h at impo r ts had to reach at least 20 per cent of the amoun ts declared in the programs. (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 123.) May 13. The prohibition on exports of k r a ft paper and k r a ft paper envelopes was t e rm in a t ed (M in i s t ry of Economy Re so lu t ion No. 1 3 3 ). May 13. Export duties were reduced, and reimburse- men ts raised, by 10 percentage points for most export i tems. With respect to other items, reduc t ions were either of d i f f e r ent amoun ts or tempo ra ry. (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 113, 115, 116, 117, and 118.) May 26. The purchase of Foreign Trade Investment Bonds became op t ional for imports of iron ore and cer ta in iron and steel products by enterprises participat- ing in the Argentine Iron and Steel P lan (Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 3556). June 1. Export re imbursemen ts were increased for cer ta in iron and steel produc ts (M i n i s t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 159 and 160). June 4. The m ix ing rates for trade t r an s a c t ions were mod if ied. Export proceeds were now to be sold 44 per cent at the official exchange rate and 56 per cent at the f ree ma rket ra te. The same m ix ing rate applied to List B imports and trade-related invisibles. The cor- respond ing propor t ions for List A impo r ts were 92 per cent at the official exchange rate and 8 per cent at the f ree m a r k et rate; those for impor ts of other raw mate- rials and producer goods were 65 per cent and 35 per cent, respectively. List D impor ts were made en t i re ly through the free market. Import paymen ts assigned to the free market could be made in cash against surrender of sh ipp ing documen ts up to 15 per cent of the total f.o.b. value. (Circular R.C. 634.) June 14. The proh ib i t ion on exports of rice was te rm ina ted (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 225). June 14. The p roh ib i t ion on exports of meat was terminated, subject to domestic demand being met (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 236). June 14. The prohibition on exports of fish meal, oleostearin, and margarine made of vegetable oils was 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 13. Export duties on gold were e l im ina ted (M in- istry of Economy Resolution No. 330 ). July 13. The regulations that prevented payment for certain animals were revoked (Telephone Communica- t ion No. 3594). July 14. Export duties on pedigree livestock were eliminated (M i n i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 337 ). July 20. The obligation to purchase Foreign Trade Inves tment Bonds became op t ional for books and other publications (Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 3601). July 22. Soy meal became subject to the ARGENTINA terminated (M in is t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 240 and 241 ). June 14. Export duties on raw sugar, refined sugar, and sugarcane were eliminated, and their export pro- ceeds were sh i f ted to the free ma rket (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 277 ). June 14. A m in imum import du ty of 5 per cent was established for all items in the ta r i ff schedule except for 84 items, inc lud ing printed ma t ter, airplanes, ships, art objects, and works of art (M i n i s t ry of Economy Resolu- tion No. 260). June 14. The export of leather and hides for use in f u r r i e ry was prohibited (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolu- t ion No. 239 ). June 15. The indemn i ty payment for the unu t i l ized por t ion of imports declared in sworn dec lara t ions of import need was abolished (C i rcu lar R.C. 635 ). June 17. The list of impo r ts subject to advance impo rt deposit was modified (C i rcu lar R.C. 637 ). June 29. Proceeds of sugar exports had to be sold in the free ma rket (C i rcu lar R.C. 638 ). June 29. All existing impo rt p roh ib i t ions were te rm i- na ted, w i th the exception of those on automobiles, cer- ta in alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, pe r fumes, and f u r- r ie ry i tems (M in i s t ry of Economy Reso lu t ion N o . , 2 9 2 ). June 29. Export proh ib i t ions on a wide range of products were te rm ina ted (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso- lu t ion No. 2 9 1 ). July 1. Sheet music was given the same exchange ra te t r e a tm ent as exports of books (C i rcu lar R.C. 639 ). July 1. A number of import items were added to L ist D (C i r cu l ar R.C. 640 ). July 5. The ru les rega rd ing the pu rchase of Foreign Trade Inve s tment Bonds became op t ional for t ransac- t ions covered by documen ta ry cred i ts (Telephone Com- mun ica t ion No. 3589). July 5. The m i n im um financing terms for cap i tal goods impo r ts were shortened for impo r ts of US$10,000 and above (C i rcu lar R.C. 641 ). July 6. The M i n i s t ry of Economy published regu- la t ions to imp lement Decree No. 3532 (November 24, 1975). The la t ter requ i red every public sector en t i ty to subm it a D ra ft Exchange Budget and Ten ta t ive Pro- g ram of Ex ternal Indebtedness for the com ing yea r. This wou ld then be sub ject to app roval of the M i n i s t ry of Economy. No ope ra t ions i n v o l v i ng fo r e ign debt could be u n d e r t a k en a f t er the end of 1976 w i thout the pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the Cen tral Bank, based upon the approved exchange budget (M i n i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 312 and Circular R.C. 653 ). July 12. Swap a r rangemen ts in connec t ion w i th pro- ceeds of fore ign financial credits were on ly pe rm i t ted for loans of 180 days' m a tu r i ty. The proceeds, amo r t iza- tion, and interest related to credits contracted w i thout exchange insu rance had to be settled in the f ree m a rk e t. Foreign financial credits of less than 180 days' m a t u r i ty were not perm i t ted (Circular R.C. 642 ). amount to be t r an s f e r r ed in bonds of the ex ternal public debt in foreign currency, at the interest rate preva i l ing in the i n t e r n a t i o n al ma rke t, in r e tu rn for the corre- spond ing am o u nt of A r g e n t i ne pesos. August 19. Impo r ts of va r ious ores (o ther th an iron ore) by firms par t ic ipa t ing in the Argen t ine Iron and Steel Plan were freed f rom the ob l iga t ion to purchase Foreign Trade Inv e s tm ent Bonds (Telephone Commun i- cation No. 3628 ). August 24. Impor ts of ju te textiles and certain types of i ron or steel p la te were exemp ted f r om the ob l iga t ion to purchase Foreign Trade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds (Tele- phone Commun ica t ion No. 3630). September 3. Export taxes on whea t, rye, bar ley, and oats were reduced to 10 per cen t, and the export pro- ceeds were sh if ted to the f ree m a r k e t. However, these measures were on ly applicable to the 1976/77 crop (M i n i s t ry of Economy R e so lu t ion No. 505 and C i r cu l ar R. C. 6 5 2 ). September 3. The list was en la rged of spare par ts or replacements wh ich could be exported in connec t ion w i th expor ts of m a c h i n e ry and e q u i pm e nt w i t h o ut corre- spond ing fo re ign exchange proceeds (R e s o l u t i on No. 229 of the Secre tar iat for Foreign T r a d e ). September 6. The m i x i ng rates were f u r t h er mod i f ied. Export proceeds, except those a l ready ass igned to the free m a r k e t, we re se t t led 25 per cent at the o f f i c i al ra te and 75 per cent at the free m a rk et rate. The correspond- ing ra t io for L ist A impo r ts and impo r ts of raw mate- rials was 53 per cent and 47 per cen t. All o ther im p o rt paymen ts we re now se t t led e n t i r e ly at the f ree m a r k et rate, as were paymen ts and proceeds re su l t ing f rom t rade - re la ted i n v i s i b le t r an s a c t ion s. Im p o rt paymen ts ch ann e l ed th rough the f ree m a r k et (except those for capital goods) cou ld be made in cash ag a in st s u r r e n d er of sh ipp ing documen ts up to 30 per cent of the total f.o.b. v a lue of the impo r t. Am o r t i z a t i on and in te re st paymen ts for fo r e ign lo ans p r ior to J u ly 12, 1976 were settled 53 per cent at the o f f ic ial ra te and 47 per cent at the free m a rk et ra te (C i rcu lar R.C. 650). September 6. The p r em i um on swap t r a n s a c t i o ns was increased to 50 per cent (Te lephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3642 ). September 6. Impor ts f rom LAFTA coun tr ies could be settled at less t h an 180 days, and the pu rchase of Foreign T rade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds became o p t i o n al for such impor ts (Telephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3641 ). September 6. Impo r ts f rom LAFTA coun t r ies of goods in c lud ed in the A r g e n t i ne Na t ional List or inc luded in c om p l em e n t a r i ty ag reemen ts were f reed from the 180-day impo rt f inanc ing r equ i r em ent and f rom the pu rchase of Fore ign Trade I n v e s tm e nt Bonds (Te lephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3 6 4 1 ). September 8. Proceeds f r om expo r ts of vege tab les were sh if ted to the free ma rket and export subsidies were reduced by 5 pe rcen tage po in ts on those i tems that had been r e c e iv ing th em (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso- lution No. 510 and C i r cu l ar R.C. 651 ). ARGENTINA September 17. The purchase of Foreign Trade Invest- ment Bonds became optional for fu r ther import com- mod i t ies (Telephone Commun i c a t ion No. 3653 ). September 77. Impor ts of cer ta in paper and card- board products no longer required the purchase of Foreign Trade Inves tment Bonds (Telephone Commun i- cation No. 3653). September 21. The re imbu r sement on exports of condensed and evaporated m i lk, dried m i l k, butter, candies, chocolate p repa ra t ions, and caseins, was increased f rom 5 to 15 per cent (M i n i s t ry of Economy R e so lu t ion No. 527 and C i rcu lar R.C. 654 ). September 24. The p rem ium on swap transactions was increased to 57 per cent (Telephone Commun ica- t ion No. 3659 ). September 27. The 30 per cent du ty on the export quota for raw cotton was e l im ina ted (M i n i s t ry of Econ- omy R e s o l u t i on No. 550). September 29. The ex i s t ing res t r ic t ion on the rem i t- tance abroad of prof i ts and d iv id end s, p resc r ib ing that such paymen ts be made in the fo rm of External Bonds, was c o n t i n u ed u n d er a prov is ion of the new Foreign I n v e s tm e nt Law p e rm i t t i ng such res t r ic t ion in case of ba lance of p a ym e n ts d i f f icu l t ie s. Banks were au tho r ized to c o n t i n ue to extend med ium - te rm and long-term loans to f o r e i g n - ow n ed local compan ie s, prov ided that they served to finance expo r ts or d e f e r r e d - p a ym e nt sales of cap i tal e q u i pm e nt to o f f ic ial bodies (Decree No. 2253 and C i rcu lar R.C. 657). October 4. Add i t ion al produc ts were exemp ted f r om advance depos it (Telephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3662 ). October 4. Chrome-plated steel hoops and sheets were exemp ted f r om advance impo rt deposit (Te lephone C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3662 ). October 5. The purchase of Foreign Trade Invest- ment Bonds became optional for inpu ts for the produc- t ion of exports (Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 3665 ). The same occurred for ce r ta in add i t ional impo r ts on October 8 (Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 3673). October 8. Imports of certain steel wire products were sh i f t ed to List D (C i r cu l ar R.C. 655 ). October 8. Export du t ies were reduced by 25 per- centage po in ts for va r ious types of wool (Circular R.C. 656). October 14. App l i c a t ions would be considered for ex emp t ion f r om the purchase of Foreign Trade Invest- ment Bonds for imports of inpu ts for the production of goods to be sold to the public sector (Telephone Com- m u n i c a t i on No. 3680 ). October 14. Impo r ts to be used in the m a n u f a c t u re of goods whose sale to public sector entities had been con- tracted before May 7, 1976, the date on wh ich the pu rchase of Foreign Trade Inves tment Bonds became r equ i r ed, were exemp ted f rom the requ i rement (Tele- phone Commun ica t ion No. 3680). October 20. A 15 per cent re imbursement was g ran ted on exports of a l um i n um cables and cords (M in- i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 731 ). 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA October 27. Materials and parts imported as inpu ts for capital goods to be m anu f a c tu r ed in A rgen t ina were excluded f rom the restrictions on f in an c ing terms for imports of capital goods (C i rcu lar R.C. 658 ). October 29. The fo l low ing items were exempted f rom certain limits with regard to import f in an c ing: j u te sack- cloth used for bags for agr icu l tural products, fue l s, and newsprint of LAFTA origin (Circular R.C. 659). November 1. The mixing rates were altered for most trade transactions. Exchange proceeds f rom exports other than those already assigned to the free ma rket were settled 85 per cent in the free ma rket and 15 per cent in the official market. Payments for imports not already assigned to the free ma rket were made 70 per cent through the free market and 30 per cent through the official market. Furthermore, 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports could now be paid upon receipt of shipping documents; this permission did not app ly to most capital goods (those listed in Circular R.C. 641). (C ircu lar R.C. 660.) November 1. The a l loca t ions for travel abroad were increased f rom US$300 to US$500 for ne ighbo r ing countries and f rom US$1,500 to US$2,500 for other countries. The portion of these allowances that could be taken up in travelers' checks or cu r rency was raised f rom US$30 to US$50 for ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies and f rom US$100 to US$250 for other coun t r ies. (C i rcu- lar R.C. 661.) November 9. The 10 per cent du ty on exports of wheat flour was e l im ina ted (M i n i s t ry of Economy Reso- lution No. 791 and C ircu lar R.C. 6 6 2 ). November 10. Sworn declarations of impo rt need were freed f rom all restrictions w i th regard to quan t i ta- tive l im i ts or obligations to utilize the declared amoun t. Declarations for the first half of 1977, cover ing ship- ments through June 30, could be filed between Novem- ber 22 and May 31, 1977. Authorized exchange agen- cies were permitted to grant a tolerance of 10 per cent of the total f.o.b. value of an import to cover differences between actual and declared import value resulting from changes in un it price. (Ministry of Economy Resolu- tion No. 794.) November 12. Imports valued at US$2,000 or less, f.o.b., were excluded from the rules of Telephone Com- munication No. 2600 (the 180-day financing require- m en t ); the purchase of Foreign Trade Investment Bonds became optional for such imports (Telephone Com- munication No. 3714). November 17. The export duty on wheat was elimi- nated (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 803). November 17. The export duty on molasses was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 5 per cent (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 805). November 19. The requirement of a 40 per cent advance import deposit was abolished (C ircu lar R.C. 664 ). 44 November 22. All exchange t ran sac t ions hence fo r th took place in the free exchange ma rke t, with the excep- t ion of new or renewed swap t ransac t ions (C ircu lar R.C. 663). November 22. Authorized banks were permitted to sell their su rp lus positions in the official ma rket at the off ic ial exchange ra te of $a 140 per US$1 (Circular R.C. 665). November 22. Export duties were increased, and export subsidies reduced, by 5 to 10 percentage points for many items. On some items, the changes were larger. Most "nontraditional" exports were not affected. (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 822 and Circu- lar R.C. 666.) November 24. Circular R.C. 667 clarified that for specified agr icu l tural export products ( inc lud ing all grains and vegetable o i l s ), export duties were calculated at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of ship- men t, not the date of surrender of the export proceeds. November 25. Capital goods whose va lue did not exceed US$10,000 could be imported w i thout any spe- c ial res t r ic t ion as to te rms of paymen t, sub ject to the same regu la t ions as impo r ts that were not capital goods (C i rcu lar R.C. 668 ). November 29. Import du t ies were reduced across the board. In the new t a r i ff schedule duties ranged f rom 5 to 100 per cen t, compared w i th 5 to 220 per cent prev ious ly. (Execu t ive Decree No. 3008.) December 24. Export du t ies were reduced by 5 to 10 percen tage points and export rebates increased by 5 to 10 percentage points for a w ide range of items. Duties on exports of corn and so rghum were reduced f rom 40 per cent to 10 per cent. (M i n i s t ry of Economy Re so lu t ion No. 936.) December 28. The Cen tral Bank announced details of a new in s t rum ent for the financing of fo re ign trade und er reciprocal credit agreements, the Latin Amer ican Bankers' Acceptance (AB LA ). Profits f rom the issue of such acceptances were tax exempt, and the transac- tions involved were exempt f r om all exchange taxes. (C ircu lar R.C. 669.) December 30. The m ax imum percentage of the f.o.b. va lue of impo r ts of noncap i tal goods which could be financed for terms of less than 180 days — inc lud ing payment in cash aga inst su r render of sh ipp ing docu- men ts —was increased f rom 40 per cent to 50 per cent. The ob l iga t ion to purchase Foreign Trade Inves tment Bonds was now applicable to only 50 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of impo r ts of noncap i tal goods. (C ircu lar R.C. 671 .) December 30. Impor ts of capital goods va lued at US$25,000 or less were exempted f rom special payment terms and could be imported subject to the same regu- la t ions as applicable to noncap i tal goods (C ircu lar R.C. 672 ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a lue is 1.09578 grams of fine gold per Au s t ra l ian Do l lar .1 From September 25, 1974, the direct l i nk w i th the U.S. do l lar was d iscon t inued and a trade-we igh ted system of c a l c u l a t i ng the exchange ra te was introduced; und er this system the exchange rate for the A u s t r a l i an do l lar was d e t e rm in ed by changes in an average of fore ign currency va lues weighted in accord- ance w i th the ir t r a d i ng s ign i f icance to Au s t r a l i a. The va lue of the A u s t r a l i an do l lar changed f rom day to day aga inst i n d i v i d u al fo re ign cu r renc ie s, but r em a in ed con- stant aga inst the t rade -we igh ted average of overseas cur- rencies. From November 29, 1976, a changed pa t te rn of m an ag em ent of the exchange ra te was adop ted. The amended a r rangemen ts provide for a va r iab le l ink to a trade-we igh ted "basket" of cu r renc ies. The practice of pegging the rate for lengthy periods was d iscon t inued and the level of the exchange ra te in r e l a t ion to the "basket" is kept und er con t inu ing review. The ra te is expressed in terms of the U.S. do l la r. On December 31, 1976, the Reserve Bank's m idd le ra te for the U.S. dollar was $A 1 = US$1.0864, and the o f f i c i al l im i ts at or w i th in wh ich b anks were to e f fect spot t r an s a c t ions w i th the public in U.S. dollars were US$1.0888 and US$1.0840 per $A 1. Banks are f ree to de te rm ine th e ir own spot rates for all other currencies; quo ta t ions are based on ra tes in overseas ma rke t s. Forward exchange cover may be a r ranged th rough the authorized banks by residents for periods app rop r i a te to the n a t u re of the t ran sac t ion in respect of most exchange r isks a r is ing out of t rade t ran sac t ion s. For- ward exchange cover for t ran sac t ions in ce r ta in inv i s ib les of a noncap i tal na tu re may also be arranged. The Reserve Bank provides fo rwa rd cover to the t r a d i ng banks in U.S. dollars. Banks act as principals in all foreign cu r rency t ran sac t ion s, both spot and fo rwa rd, and are free to de te rm ine the ir own fo rwa rd rates for all cu r renc ies; they are requ i red to res t r ict the ir uncov- ered pos i t ions and may not ca r ry excessive ba lances abroad. Aus tra l ia fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is de te rm ined by the Govern- ment w i th the advice of the Depa r tment of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank adm in- isters the exchange control on behalf of the Australian Treasurer and delegates considerable d iscre t ionary powers to the trad ing banks authorized to handle for- 1The Australian dollar also circulates in a number of other countries, including Gilbert Is lands, N a u r u, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands, and Tuvalu. eign exchange transactions. Import and export controls are adm in is tered by the Depa r tment of Business and Consumer A f fa i rs. Other depa r tmen ts are responsible for some policy aspects of con tro ls on imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Aus t ra l ian dollars, paymen ts may be made in A u s t r a l i an cu r rency th rough the account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Austra- l i a, or in any fo re ign cu r rency; 2 if impo r ts are invoiced in fo re ign cu r rency, payment must be made in fo re ign cu r rency. Proceeds f rom exports may be received in A u s t r a l i an cu r r en cy f r om an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Aus tra l ia, or in any foreign cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts All cred i ts to the accoun ts of non res iden ts are sub- ject to app rova l, which is g ran ted in the same c i rcum- stances and sub ject to the same cond i t ions as if a t r a n s f er to the coun t ry of res idence of the account ho lder were invo lved. T ran s fe rs are allowed free ly, on app l ica t ion, between accounts of nonresidents, provided that for amoun ts of $A 50,000 or more any necessary Reserve Bank approval has been issued for the under- l y i ng t ran sac t ion. Under cu r rent policy, the ba lance on an account held by any non re s ident may be w i th- d rawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accoun ts. Nonres iden ts are not gene ra l ly pe rm i t ted to borrow in Au s t ra l ia. Imports and Import Payments Gene ra l ly goods may be impo r ted w i thout impo rt licenses, and no res tr ic t ions are imposed on paymen ts for impo r ts. The l a t t er no rm a l ly mu st be made not ea r l ier th an s ix mon ths before and not la ter than s ix mon ths a f t er the a r r ival of the goods in Au s t r a l i a; con- sent to longer periods is given on ly where it is estab- lished that longer periods are normal commercial practice.8 Impo rt restrictions are imposed for a n um- ber of reasons, though not for exchange control pur- poses. Import controls are m a i n t a i n ed on cer ta in goods, m a in ly for reasons of indu s t ry assistance, health, com- m u n i ty p ro tec t ion, or security, or to m a i n t a in qu a l i ty s tanda rd s. Ships are trea ted as p roh ib i ted impor ts, and new or secondhand ships may on ly be impor ted w i th the w r i t t en consent of the M in i s ter of Transpor t. The t rea tment accorded to ships also applies to a i rc ra f t, w i th the v a r i a t ion that the w r i t t en consent of the Secretary 2 Foreign cu r renc ies are de f ined as all cu r r en c i es o ther th an the Au s t ra l ian dollar. 3 With effect f rom Janua ry 17, 1977 paymen ts for imports were nor- mally not p e rm i t t ed ear l ier t h an one mon th p r ior to the expected a r r iv al date. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA of the Department of Transport is required. In accor- dance w i th the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council, m and a to ry sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles are subject to exchange control, bu t, w i th the exception of rem i t tances to Rhodesia which are con trary to the UN sanctions, they are not restricted. The control operates pr imar i ly to prevent unau tho r ized cap i tal t r a n s f e r s; in add i t ion, rem i t tances to the New Hebrides are subject to a screen- ing procedure to ensure that no tax m in im iza t ion transac- tions are involved. Applications for outward transfers in connec t ion w i th cu r rent invisibles are no rm a l ly dealt w i th immed ia te ly by bank s; fo rms do not have to be filled out for am o u n ts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller t rans fe rs to the Reserve Bank. There is no l im it on travel funds. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one j o u r n ey plus, for jou rn eys of more than two mon ths, $A 1,500 for each add i t ional mon th up to a to tal of $A 10,000 a person; additional amoun ts may be obtained on appli- ca t ion, provided that the exchange con t rol au tho r i t ies are sa t isf ied that the exchange is to be used for bona f ide travel expenses and not for an au tho r ized cap i tal t r a n s f e r. S im i lar ly, no l im i ts are placed on rem i t tances for f am i ly ma in tenance and g if ts, but beyond certain am o u n t s, app l ica t ions must be re fe r red to the exchange control au tho r i t i e s; such app l ica t ions are trea ted l ibe ra l ly. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six mon ths a f t er the date when p aym ent is con t r a c tu a l ly due; consent to longer de fe r- ment is given on ly where it is es tab l ished that longer periods are no rmal commerc ial prac t ice. D iv idends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid w i th in one mon th of the da te on wh ich they become payab le. Foreign exchange is not n o rm a l ly provided to enable res iden ts to t a ke out personal l i fe in su r an ce w i th for- eign insurers. Travelers may take out, w i thout special au tho r iza t ion, up to $A 250 in Au s t ra l ian currency notes plus $A 5 in Au s t r a l i an coins. Travelers who are not res iden ts of Au s t ra l ia may take out any amount in fo re ign b ankno t es w i th in s ix mon ths of en t ry, provided that they brought the notes in to Aus t ra l ia. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commod i t ies, un less spec if ica l ly exempted, requires an export license in te rms of the Bank ing (Foreign Exchange) Regu la t ions, to ensure that the f u ll proceeds are received in a cu r rency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve B ank; the approved period is w i th in six mon ths pr ior to or a f t er the date of expor ta t ion, but where the value of the goods exceeds $A 10,000 the approved period for receipt pr ior to the da te of expo r ta t ion is one mon th, longer periods be ing allowed only where the pre- 46 is in accordance w i th normal commercial payment practice. With effect f rom February 1, 1976, the export licensing requ iremen ts applicable to all other coun- tries were extended to American Samoa, Cook Islands, F i j i, G i lbe rt Islands, N a u r u, New Hebrides, Papua New Gu inea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuva lu, and Western Samoa. Thus, on ly Au s t ra l ia 's ex te rnal territories rema ined exempt from export licensing requirements. To assist supervision, there is a fu r ther condition (in the case of export licenses covering goods exported by sh ip) that all sh ipp ing documen ts, b i l ls of lad ing, etc., mu st be d rawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or to a t rad ing bank ac t ing as its agent. Under the Customs (Prohibited Expor ts) Regulations the export of specified goods may be prohibited abso- l u t e ly or may be pe rm i t ted subject to prescribed condi- t ions. The export control power over raw or semi- processed m inera ls is regarded as a reserve power, which w i ll not be invoked provided the export prices com- m e r c i a l ly nego t ia ted by expor ters are related to world m a r k et levels and the export sales do not conf l ict with the na t ional in teres t. Controls have also been utilized to ensu re adequa te supplies to meet domestic requirements (e.g., a g r i c u l t u r al produc ts, p r im a r i ly stock foods and f e r t i l i z e r s ), to enab le A u s t r a l ia to comp ly w i th obliga- t i o ns u n d er in t e rn a t ion al agreemen ts, and to assist in the orderly ma rke t ing of p r ima ry products. Provision also ex is ts for gove rnment con t rol over the export of de fen se m a t e r i a l. Con tro ls exist over exports of Aus- t r a l i an - r eg i s t e r ed ships to ensu re that at all t imes ade- qua te sh ipp ing is ava i lab le for the purpose of t rade and commerce among the states and territories of Australia. In acco rdance w i th UN Reso lu t ion No. 253 of 1968, Au s t r a l ia en fo rces t r a de s a n c t i o ns aga inst Rhodes ia. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles in fore ign currencies may be disposed of on ly w i th pe rm i s s ion. Trave lers may b r ing in any am o u nt in fo r e ign or domes t ic bankno tes for t r av el expend i tu re. Capital A ll t r a n s f e rs of c a p i t al f r om Au s t r a l ia requ ire app rova l. Lend ing overseas by res iden ts is no rma l ly not pe rm i t ted other than in association w i th direct i n v e s tm e n t s. Proposals for d i rect inv e s tm ent overseas are cons idered on a case-by-case bas is. Transfers ab road for d i rect i n v e s tm e nt invo lv ing the export of a s i g n i f i c a nt m e a su re of Au s t r a l i an m an ag e r i al or tech- n ical skills are read i ly approved. Approval is also read i ly given for a ll types of i n v e s tm e nt wh ich promote A u s t r a l i an expor ts or pro tect ex i s t ing Au s t r a l i an invest- m en ts abroad. Approval is no rm a l ly g ran ted for the repa t r ia t ion of capital by nonres iden ts, but no advance comm i tmen ts are given. Foreign securities owned by A u s t r a l i an res iden ts need not be su r r end e r ed; approval is given to re s iden ts to re invest the sales proceeds f rom ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securities, but they are not norma l ly permitted to trade among themselves in foreign securities except those issued off an Australian register. The export of securities and certain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Applications by resident ind iv idua ls to invest abroad in amoun ts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-month period normally are readily approved; ins t i tu t ional investors and public companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 m i l l ion in any 12-month period. Applications for investments in larger amoun ts may be approved in special circum- stances. Eligible inves tmen ts inc lude portfolio invest- ments abroad in stocks and shares and inves tmen ts in real estate; they do not inc lude inves tmen ts in loans or other fixed-interest securities. When exchange control approval is being sought, inves tment in and other trans- actions of a capital na tu re w i th countries designated as tax havens 4 require a certificate f rom the Commissioner of Taxa t ion to the effect that tax evasion or avoidance is not involved. Approval is required for residents to borrow Aus t ra- lian or foreign currency f rom any nonresident, or to incur a l iab i l i ty to a non re s iden t; the coverage of the controls over overseas borrowings includes not on ly formal contracts to borrow but also ind irect fo rms of borrowing and transac t ions hav ing a s im i lar effect on capital in f low. In add i t ion, residents are required to ob ta in approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any b i ll of exchange or promissory note, to enter in to contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that ac tual or con t ingent rights to payments, any other va luab le consideration, or services are created in favor of any nonres iden t, or to a l lot or t ran s fer secur i t ies to, or register secur i t ies in the name of, any nonres iden t. The issue of guaran tees in Au s t r a l i an or foreign cu r rency by or on beha lf of Au s t ra l ian residents is permitted where the und e r ly ing t ransac t ions con fo rm w i th exchange control policy. Controls have been estab- lished over borrow ings (other than for trade transac t ions on normal trade credit te rm s) f rom overseas lenders of foreign or A u s t r a l i an cu r rency in amoun ts exceeding $A 100,000 a borrower in any 12-month period. There is an embargo on such borrowings wh ich are repayable, or carry options to repay, in less than 6 mon ths. Under the terms of the va r iab le deposit requ i rement scheme (at present suspended ) ,5 persons receiving approval for 4 These are listed as B ah am a s, B e rm u d a, B r i t i sh Channel Is lands, British V i rg in Is lands, Cayman Is lands, G i b r a l t a r, G r en ad a, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, L ibe r ia, L i e ch t en s t e in, L u x em b o u r g, N a u r u, Ne th- erlands An t i l les, New Hebr ides, P an am a, Solomon Is lands, Switzer- land, and Tonga. 3 With e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 17, 1977, the va r iab le deposit r equ i r em ent was r e a c t i v a t e d, in a mod if ied f o rm, so as to app ly to overseas bor- rowings, o ther th an for exempt cap i tal inv e s tm ent in m in ing and m a n u f a c t u r i ng indu s t r i es w i th a m a t u r i ty of two years or more. The deposit r equ i r em ent was set i n i t i a l ly at 25 per cen t, repayable a f t er three years or on ear l ier repayment of the bo r row ing. It was accom- panied by an extension of the emba rgo to overseas bo r row ings of less than two years' m a t u r i ty and measures to reduce the scope for "leads AUSTRALIA foreign borrowings for periods in excess of the embargo period are required to lodge a proportion of the amount drawn with the Reserve Bank, through the ir own banks, as a nonassignable, noninterest-bearing deposit in local currency. Deposits are held for the period of the bor- rowing and are refunded pro rata as loans are repaid. The borrowing restrictions, inc lud ing the deposit requ iremen t, also are applicable to the acceptance of deposits f rom overseas residents by a wide range of financial intermediaries. The borrowing embargo also applies to subscriptions by nonresidents to new issues of fixed-interest securities hav ing a m a t u r i ty of 6 mon ths or less, and to purchases by nonresidents of existing securities h av ing 6 mon ths or less to run to maturity. The var iab le deposit requ irement scheme also applies to subscriptions to new issues of fixed-interest securities m a t u r i ng in a period in excess of the embargo period.0 Au s t r a l i an banks are requ ired to cite specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $A 50,000 or more. Increases in indebtedness through in te rcompany accounts wh ich cou ld have the effect of c i r cumv en t ing the borrowing controls are prohibited. Inward equ i ty inves tment requires exchange control app rova l. In add i t ion, the Government has a general po l icy on fore ign inves tment which applies to all fo rms of fore ign inves tmen t, whether or not exchange control approva ls are required for them. This policy, which was set out in a comprehensive s ta tement on Ap r il 1, 1976, is bas ica l ly one of encouragement because of the va r ious economic benefits that the Gove rnment believes fore ign inve s tment confers on the Au s t ra l ian economy. Ce r ta in categories of such inv e s tm ent are, however, sub- ject to e x am i n a t i on to ensure that they would not be con t ra ry to the na t ional interest. The exam ina t ion procedures are kept as s imp le as possible and inter- fe rence w i th no rm al comme rc ial processes is kept to a m i n im um. The Gove rnment is advised on foreign i n v e s tm e nt matters generally by a Foreign Investment Review Board which inc ludes experienced businessmen. The ex am in ab le categories of inves tment are: (1) pro- posals f a l l i ng w i th in the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act inc lud ing certain s ign i f icant increases in foreign own e r sh ip of businesses, even where there is no change of con tro l; (2) proposals invo lv ing the establishment of new n o n b a nk financial in s t i tu t ions and insurance compan ie s; (3) proposals to establish other new busi- nesses or to unde r take m i n i ng or na tu ral resources projects, where the am o u nt of inves tment is $A 1 m i l l ion or more; and (4) certain acquisitions by foreign inter- and lags" in in te rna t ional t ransac t ions, i n c l u d i ng surve i l lance over dec reases in i n t e r c om p a ny indeb tedne s s. 6 The res t r ic t ions on non res ident deposits and nonresident investment in fixed-interest secur i t ies do not app ly to a nonresident whose invest- ment aggregates less than $A 10,000 in any 12-month period. With e f fect f rom J anu a ry 7, 1977, ma rket purchases by nonresidents of ex i s t ing fixed-interest securities and ma rket purchases of and subscrip- t ions by nonresidents to Commonwea l th government securities are not p e rm i t t e d. Expans ion of the embargo period for two years and the mod i f ied variable deposit r equ i r em ent also apply as from Janua ry 17, 1977, to non res ident deposits and subscr ip t ions to new issues of other fixed-interest securities. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA ests of Australian real estate. The basic criteria for examination encompass the net economic benef i ts and employment opportunities offered by the proposal, the level of Australian equity participation and management involved, and the l ike ly effect of the proposal on the Government's general economic and social policies. Additional criteria apply to proposed inves tment in certain indus tr ies of pa r t icu lar s ign if icance. The most notable of these are mineral, agricultural, pastoral, f ish ing, and fores try developments. U r an ium develop- ments require a m i n im um of 75 per cent Au s t ra l ian equity and Aus t ra l ian control. In the rema in ing n a tu r al resource areas, the goal is 50 per cent Aus tra l ian equity together with at least 50 per cent of board vo t ing strength to be held by Au s t ra l ian interests. How- ever, apart from u ran ium, projects in natural resource areas may be allowed to proceed w i th less than 50 per cent Aus tra l ian equ i ty if such equ i ty is not ava i lab le on reasonable terms and conditions. There are no special restrictions on domestic bank credit to overseas-owned or overseas-controlled com- panies in Australia. Gold With effect f rom Janua ry 30, 1976 all restrictions of the Australian Commonwealth Gove rnment on the own ing, buy ing, or selling in Au s t ra l ia of gold and gold coins by residents were l if ted. Furthermore, residents could hence fo r th export and impo rt gold subject to no rmal exchange control and customs procedures. Exist- ing legislation in some Aus tra l ian states to regulate certain gold dea l ings was not affected. Changes during 1976 January 1. Transactions between residents of Austra- lia and residents of Papua New Gu inea became subject to exchange control. The Foreign Takeovers Act of 1975 came in to force. January 15. The Government announced a two- mon th ex tens ion of the import quotas first applied to motor vehicles in February 1975. January 30. All restrictions by the Aus tra l ian Com- monwea l th Government on the own ing, buy ing, or selling in Australia of gold and gold coins by residents were l i f t ed. Furthermore, residents could henceforth export and import gold subject to normal exchange con trol and customs procedures. Existing legislation in some Au s t ra l ian states to regulate certain gold dealings was not affected. February 1. The export licensing requirements applicable to all other countries were extended to Amer- ican Samoa, Cook Islands, F i j i, G i lbert Islands, N au ru, New Hebrides, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Western Samoa. On ly Aus tra l ian external territories rema ined exempt f rom export l icens ing requirements. 48 February 17. The Gove rnment announced that cer- ta in selective import restrictions app ly ing to knitted tops when impor ted f rom the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, the Philippines, Sin- gapore, and Tha i land were be ing l i f ted. These controls were replaced by global tar iff quotas to apply on and a f t er February 1. It was also announced that selective impo rt re s t ra in ts on dresses and woven blouses f rom the Philippines were being l if ted. Under the terms of the v o l u n t a ry re s t ra int a r rangemen ts w i th Hong Kong and Macao, goods f r om these sources would be allowed en t ry at no rmal rates of du ty. February 29. Tar iff quotas on domestic refr igera tors, wa sh ing mach ines, and clothes dryers were con t inued pend ing a gove rnment decision on long- term assistance for the indus t ry. February 29. Tar iff quo tas, applied in March 1975, on p rec is ion -g round ball bearings were te rm ina ted. March 1. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on impor ts of sung lasses, sung lass f rame s, and oph tha lm ic spectacle f rames were continued pending a decision on the Indu s t r ies Assistance Commission repor t. March 5. Global quo ta res tr ic t ions in respect of impo r ts of uncoa ted steel sheets were te rm ina ted. These res tr ic t ions had been in e f fect since March 10, 1975. March 30. Global quota restrictions in respect of impo r ts of light comme rc ial vehicles were te rm ina ted. Simultaneously, it was announced that the quantitative re s t r ic t ions a p p l y i ng to impo r ts of completely assembled passenger au tomob i les would r em a in in effect un t il December 31, 1976. Impo rt duties on wholly imported au tomob i les would r em a in at 45 per cent un t il Decem- ber 3 1 , 1 9 7 7, while duties on imported automobiles fully assembled in Aus t ra l ia would rema in at 30 per cent un t il December 31, 1976, and would then be raised to 35 per cent; du t ies may be reduced by 10 per cent f r om the beg inn ing of 1978, in both cases, if imports fa ll below 20 per cent of total new car registrations over a fu ll year. April 1. Tariff quotas were imposed on cer ta in sheets and plates of iron and steel and on galvanized or corru- gated and ga lvan ized sheets and plates u n t il March 31, 1977. April 1. Certain changes in the policy on foreign inves tment in Australia were announced. These included the es tab l ishment of a Foreign Inves tment Review Board ( i n c l u d i ng members f rom the business com- m u n i t y) in place of the in te rdepa r tmen tal Foreign Inves tment Adv isory Committee; deletion of the screen- ing process of expans ion proposals of existing foreign businesses; and a somewhat less restrictive policy in respect of minerals and real estate. April 28. The Government announced its decision to become a signatory to the International Tin Agree- ment. April 30. The Government applied a duty of 15 per cent on imports of fluorescent lamps. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 7. Qu an t i t a t ive restrictions on imports of foot- wear were extended to cover sandboo ts, shoes, and parts for foo tw e ar i n c l u d i ng par ts for thongs. May 21. The Gov e rnm ent announced that the du ty on sound and v i sual s i g n a l i ng app a r a tus wou ld be reduced to 15 per cent and that m i n im um rates of du ty wou ld app ly on speech t r a i n e r s, h e a r i ng aids, and medical X-ray equ ipm en t. May 25. The Gov e rnm ent announ c ed its dec is ion to phase down the du t ies on sung lass f r am es and sun- glasses and pa r ts to 25 per cent and to d i s con t inue import licensing. May 28. In order to c l a r i fy issues con c e rn ing the fo re ign inv e s tm ent gu ide l ines in u r a n i um projects, the Gove rnment issued a s t a t em e nt r e i t e r a t i ng t h at a u r a n i um pro ject invo lv ing an inv e s tm ent by fo re ign in teres ts, not a l ready in p roduc t ion, wou ld be a l lowed to proceed on ly if it had a m i n im um of 75 per cent A u s t r a l i an e q u i ty and was A u s t r a l i an con t ro l led. This was to be achieved by the t ime the p ro ject came in to p roduc t ion. Fu r th e rmo r e, in the a dm i n i s t r a t i on of the gu ide l ines in th is a r e a, it was the Gove rnmen t 's i n t e n t i on to look closely at pa r t ic ipa t ing companies in order to de te rm ine whe ther the ho ld ings were of s u f f i c i e nt size or impo r tance to w a r r a nt i n c l u s i on in the c a l cu l a t ion of whe ther a p a r t i cu l ar project meets the Gove rnmen t 's 75 per cent A u s t r a l i an equ i ty r equ i r em en t s. I n d i v i d u al foreign portfolio shareholdings of less than 10 per cent in an A u s t r a l i an u r a n i um c om p a ny wou ld, in gene ra l, be disregarded. June 9. Tempo ra ry global impo rt quo tas were imposed on iron or steel plates and sheets. The quo tas would rema in in e f fect u n t il the end of Ma rch 1977. June 9. The Gove rnment announ c ed its decision to con t inue the t a r i ff quo ta a r r ang em en ts a l r e ady a p p l y i ng to the tex t i le and appa rel indu s t ry and to extend the coverage of ta r i ff quo tas to ce r ta in o ther c lo th ing products. For goods a l ready covered by ta r i ff quota a r rangemen ts it was decided that there should be some increases in quo tas. Impo r ts f r om New Zea land con- t inued to be exempt. June 11. The Gove rnment announ c ed tempo ra ry import res tr ic t ions on files and rasps. The res tr ic t ions would not app ly to such impo r ts when of New Zea land origin. June 30. The boun ty on cellulose acetate flake was term ina ted. July 1. A new system of impo rt v a lu a t ion for cus- toms du ty purposes, based on the Brussels de f in i t ion of value, came in to effec t. Prev ious ly, impo r ts had been valued for du ty purposes on the f.o.b. se l l ing price or domestic selling price in the coun t ry of export, which- ever was higher. July 1. Tariff quotas on impor ts of stainless steel flatware products were ex tended un t il the end of September. AUSTRALIA July 1. Changes in the Aus t ra l ian ta r i ff preferences scheme for developing countries came into effect. They inc luded f u r t h er reduc t ions in rates of du ty on imports f r om deve lop ing coun t r ies of m anu f a c tu r ed, semi- m a n u f a c t u r e d, and subs tan t ia l ly processed p r ima ry p roduc ts; these rates generally ranged up to 10 per cent ad va lo rem, but some were in excess of 10 per cent. Concu r ren t ly, there were some upwa rd ad jus tmen ts in the rates of d u ty on some products. In add i t ion, special p r e f e r e n t i al a r r ang em en t s, which had existed for certain deve lop ing Commonwea l th coun t r ies were extended to all developing countries. July 1. Ta r i ff quo tas were imposed on impor ts of orange ju i ce f r om all sources except New Zea land, to app ly u n t il J u ne 30, 1977. July 1. Temporary global t a r i ff quotas on a range of t e x t i le and appa rel products came in to e f fec t. A ll se lec t ive im p o rt con t ro ls and v o l u n t a ry export re s t ra in ts were t e rm i n a t e d. July 13. The G o v e r nm e nt a n n o u n c ed that a du ty of 30 per cent wou ld be app l ied on hosiery. In add i t ion, Israel wou ld be exc luded f r om the deve lop ing coun t r ies t a r i ff preference system in respect of pan ty hose. August 2. Au s t ra l ia signed a t rade and indu s t r ial coopera t ion ag reement w i th Ind ia. August 5. The Gove rnment announ c ed that the du ty on unw roug ht a l um i n um wou ld r em a in at 6 per cent, the d u ty on a l um i n um fo il would be increased to 20 per c en t, the d u ty on s em i f ab r i c a t ed a l um i n um prod- uc ts, powders, pastes, and flake wou ld be reduced to 15 per cent, and that on most other a l um i n um prod- uc ts wou ld be reduced to 20 per cent. August 5. The Gove rnment announ c ed that d u ty on pu t t ie s, mastics, and artists colors would be reduced to 20 per cent and a d u ty of 15 per cent would be app l ied to p a i n t s, va rn i she s, and lacquers. August 11. Tempo ra ry global quo ta res t r ic t ions were a p p l i ed to impo r ts of domes t ic electrical chest freezers up to a capacity of 350 liters. Licensing would apply to a ll im p o r ts other th an those u n d er e x i s t i ng special t r a d i ng a r r a n g em e n ts prov ided for in the New Zea land- A u s t r a l ia Free Trade Ag reemen t. August 13. The G o v e r nm e nt announ c ed that the d u ty on r a i lw ay and t r amw ay locomotives and ro l l ing stock gene ra l ly, wou ld be reduced to 15 per cen t, except for b a t t e ry operated locomo t ives wh ich wou ld be d u t i a b le at 6 per cent. August 18. The Gove rnment announ c ed that w i th e f fect f r om Ju ly 1, t a r i ff quo tas wou ld be applied in respect of cer ta in impo r ts of plywood. September 1. Ta r i ff quo tas were imposed on most types of uncoa ted paper and paperboard h a v i ng a f .o .b. price of not more than $A 350 a ton. The quo tas wou ld app ly u n t il M ay 3 1 , 1 9 7 7. September 23. Au s t ra l ia and New Zealand agreed to extend th e ir free t rade ag reement for a f u r t h er ten years f rom December 31, 1976. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA October 1. Tariff quotas on uncoated cold rolled iron and steel sheets were terminated. October 9. A "Buy Aus tra l ian" policy was in t roduced for the pub l ic sector. October 15. The Gove rnment announced that duties on most perfumes, cosmetics, and toilet p repa ra t ions wou ld be reduced to 20 per cent. November 9. The Government announced that it subscribed to the principles of the Declaration of Official Support for Export Credits, in a bid to avoid counterproductive competition in the terms and con- ditions of export credits extended to overseas buyers. November 16. The Government announced that duties on handbags, wallets, belts, travel goods, and s im i lar products would be reduced to 25 per cent over f o ur years and that the d u ty on a r t i f i c i al fur and a r t ic les of a r t i f ic ial fur would be 12 per cent. November 28. It was announced that the A u s t r a l i an do l l ar wou ld be depreciated f rom $A 1 = US$1 .2329 to $A 1 = US$1.0174 e f fec t ive November 29. The exchange rate wou ld con t inue to be set by re fe rence to changes in a t rade -we igh ted basket, but the pegging of the ra te for leng thy periods wou ld now be d i scon t inued. More f r e q u e nt and sm a l l er sh i f ts in the r e l a t ion sh ip of the A u s t r a l i an do l l ar to the basket of currencies would take place. Between November 29 and December 31, the rate for the Au s t ra l ian do l lar was appreciated in terms of the U.S. do l lar, on several occasions. On December 31, the m idd le ra te was $A I = US$1.0864. December 7. A reform of the t a r i ff s truc ture was announced a f fec t ing more than 900 ta r i ff items in a to tal of about 2,750. The p r e f e r en t i al t a r i ff ma rg in in favor of the Un i ted K ingdom was e l im ina ted on some 700 i tems and reduced on a f u r t h er 100 i tems by a r edu c t ion in the general t a r i ff ra te; the general t a r i ff ra te was e l im i n a t ed on ano ther 10 i tems. These ta r i ff reduc t ions covered about $A 1,800 m i l l ion of Au s t r a l i a 's impo r ts. Q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions on assembled au to- mob i les were removed as were t a r i ff quo tas on com- pletely knocked-down vehicles. Tariff quotas were removed on galvanized steel sheets as was the tem- porary du ty on monochrome television receivers and cer ta in related electronic components. December 15. The Government announced that the Indus t r ies Assistance Commission Report on Footwear had been deferred and for that reason, pending a decision on the long-term levels of assistance, import licensing controls on footwear wou ld be extended for a year at the same levels and rema in on a volume basis. December 20. Pending a decision on the long-term assistance for the indus try, the Government announced its decision to con t inue, for the t ime being, the import restrictions on cer ta in files and rasps but at an amended level, on an annual basis of 90,000 dozen instead of 75,000 dozen. December 24. The Gove rnment announced its deci- sion that du t ies be reduced on copper rolled products and ce r ta in copper based sem i fab r ica t ions and that m in i- mum rates app ly on ce r ta in o ther s em i f ab r i c a t ion s. December 24. The Gove rnment announced the in tro- du c t ion of a revised boun ty scheme for ag r icu l tu ral t rac to rs and to remove the l i c en s ing control on imports of used and secondhand ag r i cu l tu r al trac tors. December 29. The Gove rnment announced the imp le- men ta t ion of a number of trade concessions for the bene f it of developing countries in the context of the Mu l t i l a t e r al Trade Negotiations in Geneva. The Gov- e rnment had decided that some t a r i f fs would be reduced and that consideration would be given later in the nego t ia t ions to b ind ing these rates against increase. In respect of some goods that were already du ty free, the G o v e r nm e nt wou ld accept the b ind ing of these rates at zero. December 31. Tar iff quo ta a r r ang em en ts on bras- sieres were con t inu ed for a period of up to two years. Impo r ts f r om New Zea land con t inu ed to be exempt. December 31. Tar iff quo ta a r r ang em en ts on cer ta in polyester and po lyam ide y a r ns were con t inu ed. Impor ts f r om New Zea land c o n t i n u ed to be exemp t. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on January 1, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Aus tr ian Schilling. Aus t r ia has no t if ied the Fund that the rate for the A u s t r i an sch i l l ing is S 1 = SDR 0.0423597. In practice, and w i thout hav ing assumed any f o rm al obligations in this respect, the authorities observe mar- gins of 4l/2 per cent e i ther side of cross pa r i t ies for currencies p a r t i c i p a t i ng in the Eu ropean common ma r- gins arrangement. However, since Ju ly 13, 1976 tem- porary new l im i ts of S 705 and S 7 19 per DM 100 have been established in re la t ion to the deutsche m a r k. On December 31, 1976, the au thor ized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 16.7175 and S 16.8175, respectively, per US$1. Forward p r em iums and discounts are, in p r i n c i p l e, l e ft to the in te rp lay of market forces. Austria fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agree- men t, as f r om August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Aus t r ian Na t ional Bank adm in i s te rs exchange control and issues exchange l icenses whe re requ i red. Most exchange t r an s a c t ions pass th rough A u s t r i an b anks authorized to imp lement the exchange control regu la- tions. The customs issues f ree ly and w i thout de lay licenses requ ired for im p o r ts of l ibe ra l ized goods. Licenses, if requ ired, for other impo r ts and for expor ts have to be obtained f r om the competent m in is try, viz., the Federal M in i s t ry of Trade, Comme rce, and I n d u s t ry (L i c e n s i ng O f f ice) or the Federal M i n i s t ry of Ag r i cu l tu re and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th a ll coun t r i es may be made e i ther in conver t ib le cu r renc ies or t h r o u gh Free S c h i l l i ng Accounts. The exchange control regu la t ions genera l ly are based on the d i s t i n c t i on be tween "m u l t i l a t e r al mem- ber countries" ( IMF or OECD membe rs w i th wh ich settlements take place in conve r t ib le cu r r en c i e s) and "multilateral nonmember countries" (other countries with which s e t t l em en ts a re made in conve r t ib le cu r- renc ies ). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of non res ident accounts in sch i l l ings: Free Sch i l l ing Accoun t s, I n t e r im Accoun ts for non re s iden ts r e s id ing in m emb er coun t r i es of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accoun ts for non- residents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be f ree ly credited w i th proceeds f r om the sale of gold coins or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an au thor ized bank, provided that the con- vers ion serves to make a cu r rent payment to a res iden t, as well as with paymen ts permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza- t ion. The accoun ts may be free ly debited for paymen ts to Au s t r ian residents, who mus t, however, app ly for ind iv idual licenses if they are to receive loans f rom nonresidents or if the nonresident's payment serves to finance direct inves tment in Aus t r ia or the purchase of real estate in Au s t r i a. Balances may be f ree ly converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked and Interim Accounts consist of f u n ds that are due to nonres iden ts. General licenses p e rm it the ir use for paymen ts for many current and some capital t ran sac t ion s. The t r an s f er abroad of f u n ds in Blocked and I n t e r im Accounts is sub ject to an i n d i v i d u al license. In most cases licenses are gran ted f ree ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Balances in Blocked Accounts exceed by far those in In te r im Accounts. Non re s iden ts may also m a i n t a in non res ident accounts in convertible fore ign currencies. These accounts may be deb i ted for the same purposes as Free Sch i l l ing Accounts, and sub ject to the same cond i t ions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Fo re ign Trade Law are f ree of impo rt l i c e n s i ng and may be impor ted f r om any coun try w i thout quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ion. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative res t r ic t ion. For many goods licenses are gran ted by the cus toms, at the t ime of clearance, when they are impo r ted f r om any coun t ry other than Rhodesia.1 Nearly all imports f r om GATT countries, their asso- ciated territories, and some other countries 2 are liberal- ized. Aus t r ia 's GATT l ibe ra l iza t ion is applied world- 1 Goods l i b e r a l i z ed for i m p o rt f r om a g iv en g r o up of coun t r ies may be f r e e ly im p o r t ed f r om a ny c o u n t ry in t he g r o u p, p r o v i d ed that t he c o u n t ry of e x p o r t a t i on and the c o u n t ry of p roduc t ion of the goods i n v o l v ed a re in t he s ame g r o u p. 2 The f u ll l ist is as fo l low s: A l g e r i a, A r g e n t i n a, Au s t r a l i a, Bah ra in, B a n g l a d e s h, Ba rbado s, B e l g i um, B en in, Bo t sw an a, Brazil, B u rm a, B u r u n d i, Cambod ia, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r ican Empire, Ch ad, C h i l e, Peop le's R e p u b l ic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyp ru s, Den- m a rk ( i n c l u d i ng Faroe Is lands and G r e e n l a n d ), Dom in ican Repub l ic, E c u a d o r, E g y p t, E q u a t o r i al G u i n e a, F i j i, F i n l a n d, F rance, Gabon, T he G am b i a, Fede ral Repub l ic of G e rm a n y, Ghana, Greece, G u y a n a, H a i t i, I c e l a n d, I n d i a, I n d o n e s i a, I r e l a n d, Is rae l, I ta ly, I v o ry Coast, J am a i c a, K e n y a, K o r e a, K u w a i t, Leso tho, L u x em b o u r g, M ad ag a s c a r, M a l a w i, M a l a y s i a, M a l d i v e s, Ma l i, M a l t a, M a u r i t a n i a, M a u r i t i u s, N e t h e r l a n d s, N ew Z e a l a n d, N i c a r a g u a, N i g e r, N i g e r i a, N o rw a y, Pak is- t a n, P e r u, P o r t u g a l, Qa ta r, Rhode s ia, Rw a n d a, Senega l, S ie r ra Leone, S i n g a p o r e, Sou th A f r i c a, Spa in, S ri L a n k a, Swaz i land, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l a n d, T an z an i a, Togo, Tonga, T r in idad and Tobago, Tunisia, T u r k e y, U g a n d a, U .S .S .R ., U n i t ed K i n g d om, U n i t ed States, Upper Vo l ta, U r u g u a y, People's Democra t ic Republic of Yemen, Yugos lav ia, Za i're, and Zamb ia. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA wide, except in respect of cotton textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (barter). State trad ing covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, inc lud ing imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Gra ins, m i lk and butter, and cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agri- cu l tu ral Marketing Law. Certain agricultural products and specified textile products are subject to import levies. In principle, import licenses are issued only to import- ers who have received trade licenses. Licenses granted to new importers take into account the amount up to which the corresponding global quota has been utilized. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six mon ths, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible cur- rencies do not require exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions concerning transport and insurance. As to transac t ions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries, general licenses cover the ma jor i ty of these (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repa irs); for the rema in ing transactions, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted af ter account is taken of certain considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity, and in hardship cases. Payments on account of generally authorized invisi- bles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments to "multilateral nonmember coun- tries" for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or take up as short- term advance f rom nonresidents in multilateral countries up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should 52 a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Aus t r ian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as t ranspo r ta t ion. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Aus tr ian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the competent m in is t ry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs. Goods exported under compensation a r rangemen ts are subject to licensing by the Federal M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Indus try. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of re levant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance w i th such agreements, and for the needs of the Aus tr ian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts w i th authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared w i th in eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Some inward capital transfers, some transactions that could lead to such inflows, and most private sector borrowing from nonresidents are at present restricted. The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities f rom authorized banks is permitted freely, but the acquisition of shares or participations in Austrian com- panies or firms, and of most Austrian real estate not intended for personal use is subject to individual approval by the National Bank; direct investments by nonresidents norma l ly are permitted when they serve to create or ma in ta in lasting economic relations and provided that they are financed f rom foreign currency accounts or Free Schilling Accounts, in freely con- vertible foreign currency, or from profit claims on the domestic firm concerned. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Na t ional Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are granted pa r t icu la r ly, but not exc lus ive ly, for ( 1) inves t- ment credits for p roduc ing en terpr ises, (2) impo rt and export f inance, and (3) loans f rom non r e s id ent re la t ives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (wh ich are licensed f r e e l y ). The g r a n t i ng of pe rm iss ions for comme rc ial credits w i th a m a t u r i ty of one to five years to finance impor ts of con sumer goods, especially pas- senger au tomob i les, is restricted; import credit w i th a m a t u r i ty cu s toma ry in the trade concerned, but not exceeding one year for consumer goods, is licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and l iab i l i t ies in con- vertible currenc ies of au thor ized banks are not subject to limitation, but a gentlemen's agreement w i th the National Bank provides that the domestic credit in s t i tu- tions are to abstain f rom increasing domestic l iqu id i ty by tak ing up fore ign cu r rency f u n ds abroad and thus raising their sch i l l ing l iab i l i t ies, and f rom c a l l ing in the ir foreign loans prior to m a t u r i t y. A numb er of au tho- rized banks are perm i t ted to accept conve r t ib le cur- rencies f rom abroad for on lend ing abroad at m a tu r i t i es of up to five years. The Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank perm i ts the t ran s fer abroad of ( 1) proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of var ious foreign inves tmen ts in Au s t r ia (shares or pa r t ic ipa t ion in Aus t r ian enterprises, Au s t r ian secur i t ies, and real estate in A u s t r i a) and (2) repaymen ts by residents of foreign loans and credits. The t r an s f er of f u n ds owned by em ig ran ts, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inhe r i- tances, and se t t lemen ts under cer ta in agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct inves t- ment, to acquire par t ic ipa t ion rights in fo re ign compa- nies, associations, and other en te rp r ises, and to es tab l ish, acquire, or extend fore ign agencies or i n d i v i d u a l ly owned f irms; ea rn ings a c c ru ing f rom such inve s tment usually may be re inves ted. Res iden ts also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is in tended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one y e a r ), to grant commerc ial or inves tment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can ac tua l ly exert inf luence on the management of the nonres ident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad, provided that the proceeds of the credit are not used w i th in Austria (except for com- mercial credits). Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l i fe insu rance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documen ta t ion, provided that they are concluded w i th residents of coun- tries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "mu l t i- lateral member countries" and registered on stock AUSTRIA exchanges3 and Austrian securities; for foreign securi- ties and Au s t r ian external bonds, the transactions must be carr ied out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with cer ta in exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the V ienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonres iden ts may be made in con- ver t ib le currencies. Res iden ts may sell foreign securities and Aus t r ian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited in accordance with the afore- mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks, on ly through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemp t ion of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe l ry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Na t ional Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined there in; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions w ide ly l ibe ra l iz ing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transac- t ions w i th mone tary au thor i t ies of other countries or w i th in t e rn a t ion al financial ins t i tu t ions. The Bank has au tho r ized credit ins t i tu t ions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Aus tr ia gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their cus tomers ( i n c l u d i ng non r e s id en t s ); the prices are based on those for coins and u nm a n u f a c t u r ed gold in free ma rke ts abroad. A general license also permits other res iden ts to purchase and sell among themselves, in Aus- t r ia and aga inst payment in schillings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The M int releases cer ta in types of gold coins ( re s t r ike s) to authorized credit in s t i tu t ions for resale to the pub l ic. It has also issued a commemora t ive gold coin with a face va lue of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any fo rm, inc lud ing bars, in Aus tr ia, and they may acquire in Aus tr ia any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medal- lions; fu r the rmo re, domestic t rad ing between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less th an 0.585, the acqu is i t ion f rom residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the mone tary au thor i t ies, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among them- selves gold in any fo rm. Domestic sales of gold coins • T he general l icense does not app ly to the purchase by residents f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts of s e c u r i t i es of a p a r t i c i p a t i ng n a t u re in what- ever legal f o rm ( i n c l u d i ng sha res) that are issued by fo re ign invest- m ent f u n ds or by s im i l ar i n s t i t u t i o ns of wha tever k i nd wh ich assemble assets for the p u r p o se of r i sk sp r e ad ing. I n d i v i d u al l icenses a re issued a u t om a t i c a l ly when the pu rcha se takes place on a recognized fo r e ign stock exchange or when the issu ing i n s t i t u t i on is subject to adequa te s u r v e i l l a n c e. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the M in is try of Trade, Com- merce, and Indu s t ry, which usua l ly grants any license applied for by indus t r ial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses au toma t ica l ly for cer- ta in gold impor ts w i th in its competence. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law pre- scribes a license issued by the Na t ional Bank covering the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued af ter con- sideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require au tho r iza t ion by the Na t ional Bank; the Bank has issued a general license perm i t t ing nonres ident travelers to take out coins that are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a t r ip, and allowing resident travelers to "multi- lateral member countries" to export such coins up to a va lue of S 1,000 a person a trip. The Na t ional Bank's impor ts and exports do not requ ire impor t, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial impor ts of jewe l ry and of articles con t a in ing a m inor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses be ing issued auto- ma t ica l ly by the customs; commercial exports of a num- ber of such articles, however, must be licensed by the M in i s t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry. Changes during 1976 January 1. Foreign Exchange A n n o u n c em e nt DE 2 / 75 of December 19, 1975 came in to e f fec t, which provided for a considerable degree of l ibera l iza t ion of inwa rd cap i tal movemen ts f rom "mu l t i la te ral member coun- tries" and revoked Announcement DE 12 /71. It speci- fied the ou tward and inward cap i tal t ran s fe rs for which the Na t ional Bank was prepared to issue ind iv idu al licenses; in most cases, the paymen ts or con trac ts had to relate to "mu l t i la teral member countries." The res t r ic t ions imposed in 1972 on inw a rd d irect i n v e s tm e nt and on inward po r t fo l io inves tment in quoted and unquo ted securities were l i f ted. The res t r ic t ions on inward financial credits ( f r om which investment credits for p roduc ing enterprises were a l ready excep ted) and on the acqu is i t ion by nonres iden ts of domestic real estate were m a i n t a i n e d. The res tr ic t ions on inwa rd commercial cred i ts were lifted for credits with a ma tu r i ty of less than one year and, where the ma tu r i ty was one to five years, were limited to those in tended to finance the import of consumer goods. Un t il fu r th er notice, there were excepted f rom the t ransac t ions that had been generally permitted by v i r tue of Foreign Exchange Announcemen ts DE 10/71 and DE 11 /71, any acts in connection with the acquisition by nonresidents f rom residents of ( 1) domestic securities, (2) shares or par- ticipations in domestic enterprises, (3) domestic real estate, and (4) real rights to such real estate. In a 54 separate action, however, the National Bank granted the commercial banks a general permission to sell domestic securities to nonresidents. January 1. The validity of all existing un i la teral ta r i ff reductions ( in troduced under the price containment pro- gram that began in 1969) was carried over into 1976. January 1. In accordance w i th the free trade arrange- ment with the EEC, import duties on most industrial products of EEC origin were reduced by a fu r ther 20 per cent. January 1. The general rate of value-added tax was increased f rom 16 per cent to 18 per cent. January 22. The National Bank announced that the additional tranche of S 1 billion made available for one year on May 1, 1975 for the uncond i t ional rediscount- ing of export promotion bills would rema in available un t il the end of 1976. On October 27, this t ranche was extended un t il end-1977. March 31. The l im it on the total amount of export credit guaran tees was increased f rom S 60 billion to S 80 billion. April 27. The general permissions contained in For- e ign Exchange Announ c em en ts DE 4 / 71 and DE 8 /71 were amended so as to exclude the purchase, exchange, or acceptance of I ta l ian bankno tes in denom ina t ions exceeding Lit 10,000. July 1. The agreement of December 2, 1975 between the M in i s t ry of Finance, the Na t ional Bank, and the commercial banks on the ma in tenance of a ceiling of 12 per cent per a n n um on the expansion of domestic bank credit was extended, with cer ta in mod if ica t ions, to December 31, 1976. The 12 per cent ceiling continued to be un en fo r c ed. Some of the credit ins t i tu t ions' com- m i tm en ts to prevent cap i tal inf lows con t inued in force. (The gen t leman 's ag reement was renewed, subs tan t ia l ly unchanged, on J a n u a ry 1, 1977.) July 13. The Na t ional Bank announced that it would, w i th immed ia te e f fec t, fo l low a somewhat more f lex ib le exchange rate policy. Thus, in establishing the rate for the deutsche ma rk, essen t ia l ly the highest and lowest quo ta t ions of the yea rs 1975 and 1976 (S 7 05 and S 7 1 9, respec t ive ly, per DM 1 0 0) would be used as l im i t s. Nevertheless, the p r inc ip le of Austria's au tono- mous a l ignm ent on the Eu ropean common marg ins a r r a n g em e n t, w i t h in the 4l/2 per cent ma rg ins previously chosen by A u s t r i a, would be ma in ta ined. October 10. The basic in terest ra te for export financ- ing by the Osterreichische Kontrollbank was lowered by l/2 of 1 per cent. October 18. An exchange ra te rea l ignment took place w i t h in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r rangemen t. Austria con t inued the exchange rate policy announced on Ju ly 13, 1976. October 22. A commemo ra t ive gold coin w i th a face va lue of S 1,000 was issued. The coin was declared legal tende r. October 27. Aus tr ia ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT w i th respect to Japan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 31. The regulation of December 6, 1975 imposing m in imum import prices, imp lemen ted by import levies, on specified textile products, irrespective of origin, expired. It was replaced on November 1 by a similar regulation valid un t il October 31, 1977. The following change took place at the beg inn ing of 1977: January L Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 3 /76 of December 16, 1976 came into effect, wh ich amended Announcement DE 2 /75 and fu r ther liberalized the rema in ing restrictions on capital inflows. Nonres iden ts were f redy permitted to purchase real estate in Aus tr ia for personal use, provided it would be utilized for this purpose within one year. AUSTRIA 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold pei Bahamian Dollar, which corresponds to B$l = US$1, and the Bahamas avails itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, and only w i th com- mercial banks. It buys U.S. dollars at par and charges a commission of V2 of 1 per cent when selling. It buys sterling at the New York market mid-rate against the U.S. dollar and charges a commission of Vz of 1 per cent on this mid-rate when selling. For transactions in transfers and d ra f ts with the public, banks are authorized to charge a commission of Vz of 1 per cent buy ing, and 3/4 of 1 per cent selling, per US$1, and l/2 of 1 per cent, buying or selling, per <£ stg. 1; these charges are addi- tional to the Central Bank's charges. In addition, a stamp tax of 1A of 1 per cent is imposed on outward transfers; remittances f rom Freeport on behalf of the Port Authority or any licensee in respect of their own business w i th in the port area and rem i t tances f rom bank accounts outside the Bahamas are exempt. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents through the intermediary of an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a p rem ium over the official market rate. This p rem ium was 13 per cent on December 31, 1976, unchanged since March 1974. As from December 5, 1973, the Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve normal allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. The adm in is tra t ion of exchange and trade controls is not un i fo rm through- 1 This is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be re ta ined and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas f rom the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, l iqu ida t ion, redemption, or realization of p rope r ty or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of inves tment cu r r en cy is prescribed for the purchase f rom nonresidents of foreign currency securities and the mak ing of direct investments outside the Bahamas. 56 out the Bahamas. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency The Bahamas' exchange controls extend to all terri- tories outside the Bahamas and make no d is t inc t ion between fo re ign te r r i to r ies. Settlements w i th residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency 2 or in Baham ian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may f ree ly open Ex te rnal Accounts denom ina ted in Baham ian dollars for w in ter residents and for persons w i th residency perm i ts but w i thout work perm i ts. W i th the p r ior app roval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts a re no rma l ly fund ed en t ire ly f rom fore ign currency o r ig ina t ing outside the Bahamas, but income on registered inv e s tm ent may also be credited to these accounts. Balances may be converted f ree ly in to fo re ign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited w i th f u n ds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by em ig ran ts. Where the va lue of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transferable through the official exchange market a f ter four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested in certain resident-held assets or spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The impo r ta t ion of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or human i ta r ian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for mak ing payments for imports, irrespective of or ig in; 4 this approval is no rma l ly given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents prov ing the existence of a purchase contract. An import surcharge ("emergency tax") of 12Vi pe rcent ad valorem is levied on most imports. Customs entries are subject to s tamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. 2 Foreign currenc ies compr ise all cu r renc ies other Bahamian dollar. a Na tural persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty who have been granted " tempo ra ry resident" s ta tus are t r e a t ed as non res iden ts but are not pe rm i t ted to hold Ex te rnal Accounts. 4 Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this au tho r i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. than the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles There are no res tr ic t ions on cu r rent p aym en t s. Au tho- rized dealers have been g iven au tho r i ty to make paymen ts to nonres iden ts on behalf of res iden ts for cer ta in services and o ther inv is ib les w i th in specified l im i ts. Such paymen ts inc lude f r e igh t, ships' d isburse- ments, commissions, royalties, in terest on Baham ian assets, and insu rance paymen t s. Res iden ts are en t i t led to a fo re ign currency t ravel a l lowance of the equ iva lent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genu ine bus iness or pro- fessional t rave l. The am o u nt of B$ 1,000 for tour ist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are no rma l ly ob ta ined aga inst p aym ent in Baham ian dollars to a t ravel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for fore ign exchange in excess of these amoun ts must be re fe r red to the Cen t ral B ank, wh ich approves all bona fide app l ica t ion s. Foreign exchange facilities ob ta ined for travel may not be re ta ined abroad for use on a jou rn ey or be used abroad for other pur- poses; any unused ba lance must be su r rende red w i th in one mon th of issue or, if the t rave ler is s t i ll abroad, w i th in one mon th of his r e tu rn to the Bahamas. Subject to adequa te documen ta ry ev idence, an educa t ion allow- ance of up to B$6,000 a person an academ ic year is norma l ly given upon app l i c a t ion to au tho r ized dealers. App l ica t ions for f a c i l i t i es in excess of th is am o u nt have to be re fe r red to the Cen tral Bank. Temporary residents may rem it up to 50 per cent of the ir wages and salaries which are in excess of the ir need in the Bahamas. Where comm i tmen ts outside the Bahamas are larger than 50 per cent of wages and salaries, however, such amoun ts may also be rem i t ted. There are no res tr ic t ions on the export of coins expressed in any currency, but in p r inc ip le, the export by travelers of domestic bankno tes is l im i ted to B$70 and of fore ign currency notes to the equ iva lent of B$ 1,000; in practice these limits are not enforced. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish and arms and ammun i t ion. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an au thor ized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner sa t isfac tory to the Central Bank. The surrender requ iremen ts are seldom enforced. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all amounts due to them f rom nonres iden ts and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requ i remen ts are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes. The import of domestic banknotes is subject in principle to the approval of the Central Bank, but in practice any amount may be brought in by travelers. BAHAMAS Capital All cap i tal t r an s f e rs to countries outside the Bahamas requ ire exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not requ i re exchange control approval, although the subsequent u t i l iza t ion of the f u n ds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any act whereby non- res iden ts acqu ire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and com- panies requ i re the specific permission of the Central Bank to m a i n t a in b ank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for outward direct invest- ment is l im i t ed to B$ 150,000 or 50 per cent of the total cost of the inv e s tm en t, whichever is greater, for invest- ments f rom which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the ba lance of paymen ts f r om export receipts, prof i ts, or other earn ings w i th in 18 mon ths of the inv e s tm en t, w i ll at least equal the to tal amount of invest- ment and con t inue the rea f te r. Inves tmen ts in excess of B$ 150,000 must be financed by investment currency or by fo re ign cu r rency borrowed on su i tab le terms, subject to ind iv idu al approval by the Central Bank. Projects wh ich do not meet the above cr i ter ia may be financed by fo re ign currency borrow ing, the purchase of foreign cu r rency in the inves tment cu r rency marke t, or the use of re ta ined profits of fo re ign subsidiary companies. Pe rm iss ion is not given for projects which are likely to have adverse effects on the ba lance of paymen ts. Inward inves tment by nonres iden ts in principle is un re s t r ic ted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is requ ired for the issue or t rans fer of shares in a Baham ian company to a nonres ident and for the t rans fer of control of a Baham ian company to a nonresident. Where the investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonres ident must ob ta in permission. Such permission is no rma l ly gran ted, provided that a f a ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Baham ian dollars f rom an External Account or in fore ign currency. For all inves tmen ts w i th approved status, permission is au toma t ica l ly given for the t ran s fer of profits and d iv idends, represen t ing ea rned t rad ing profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, in c lud ing any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can only be made with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each f am i l y. Any inc iden tal expenses con- nected w i th the purchase of property for personal use may norma l ly be met with inves tment currency; expen- ditures necessary to preserve the property or arising 5 Banks and t rus ts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, pa r t icu la r ly w i th regard to their offshore operations. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS directly f rom its ownership, may with permission be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The t rans fer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of non- residents. A resident may make cash g i f ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption f rom certain exchange control obligations, notably w i th respect to the manda tory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Baham ian securities must pay for such purchases in Baham ian dollars f rom an Ex te rnal Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Baham ian dollars ar is ing f r om the sale of foreign currency in the off ic ial fore ign exchange marke t; interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acqu ired by non- residents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase fore ign currency securities w i th off ic ial exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th inves tment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in fore ign currency securities by B ah am i an residents, wherever the switch takes place, requ ire permission f rom the Central Bank, and all t ransac t ions must take place through authorized agents.6 All fo re ign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered fore ign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Cen tral Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the invest- ment currency marke t; securities not properly registered may be offered for sale at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Residents leaving the coun t ry w i th the in ten t ion of residing outside the Bahamas pe rmanen t ly are redes- ignated upon depar ture as nonresidents. Under normal rules a fam i ly (or an i n d i v i d u a l ), leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere, may t r a n s f er at the current market rate in the official fore ign exchange ma rke t, up to B$25,000 of its (or his) Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects w i th them. Where the 6 These are ten banks and t ru st companies and others au tho r ized to deal in Bahamian and fore ign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. 58 total value of their Baham ian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferab le through the official exchange market after four years or through the invest- ment currency market at any t ime. A f ter a person's redesignation as a nonresident, income accruing from his assets rema in ing in the Bahamas is norma l ly remit- table at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow fore ign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions w i th regard to their lend ing of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans through the conversion of Bahamian dollars. Where permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is nor- mally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the f u n ds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for wh ich permission has been specifically given. A resident company which is wholly owned by non- residents of the Bahamas is not no rma l ly allowed to raise wo rk ing capital in B ah am i an dollars unless such funds are a sma ll proportion of the to tal inves tmen t. If the company is pa r t ly owned by nonres iden ts, approval of such local cu r rency borrow ing is de term ined on a basis pro ra ta to the non res ident interest in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas requ ire perm iss ion before they make loans in domestic currency to any body corporate (other than a b a n k ), wh ich is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means con tro l led, whe ther d i r e c t ly or ind irec t ly, by non res iden ts. However, companies wh ich are set up by non re s iden ts p r im a r i ly to impo rt and d is t r ibu te products m a n u f a c t u r ed ou ts ide the Bahamas are not norma l ly allowed to borrow B a h am i an do l la rs f rom residents e i ther for fixed or wo rk ing cap i tal but must provide all their finance in fo re ign cu r rency; borrow ings in a fore ign currency norma l ly are permitted on application. Genera l ly, au tho r ized dealers may provide cred it in Baham ian dollars to nonresidents in respect of imports, where the purchase of fo re ign cu r rency is du ly author- ized and provided that the va l id i ty of the credit does not exceed the period of au tho r iza t ion. Foreign currency deposits w i th au tho r ized dealers may be on-lent to non- res iden ts for any purpose. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not perm i t ted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those res iden ts, however, who are known users of gold for indus tr ial purposes may, w i th the approval of the Cen tral Bank, meet the ir cu r rent indus t r ial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to indus t r ial users. Authorized dealers are not required to ob ta in licenses for bu l l ion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewe l ry do not require a license. There ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import du ty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 7!/2 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisi- tion or retention by residents of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. BAHAMAS 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.86621 grams of fine gold per Bahrain D inar, corresponding to BD 0.394737 = US$1, and Bahra in avails itself of wider ma rg ins. The Bah ra in Monetary Agency quotes da i ly rates for the U.S. dollar based on the par va lue and da i ly rates for pounds s te r l ing and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. do l lar against those currencies. On December 31, 1976, the Mone tary Agency's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.39550 and BD 0.39580, respectively, per US$1, and those for ster- l ing were BD 0.67135 and BD 0.67385, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Mone tary Agency does not deal w i th the public. In their dealings w i th the public, commerc ial banks are requ ired to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche ma rk but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Mone tary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York ma rket rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar.1 Bahra in forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment on March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahra in. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered with the commercial registry, M in i s t ry of Commerce and Agriculture, and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore Bank ing Units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are produc ts manu fac tu red by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of hea l th, morals, or security; imports of cu l tured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required on ly for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are in practice impor ted on ly by the Bahra in Import-Export Company. Exchange for paymen ts in respect of per- m i t ted impo r ts may we obtained free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of ce r ta in ref ined petroleum products to South A f r i ca have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requ iremen ts attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bah ra in any amount in domestic or fo re ign bankno tes. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents, but no paymen ts may be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Profits f rom foreign investments in Bahrain may be t rans fe r red abroad freely w i th the exception that under the Bank ing Control Law, banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the rem i t tance of their profits. Licensed Offshore Bank- ing Un i ts may freely engage in transactions with non- residents; transac t ions w i th residents are not normally perm i t ted. Gold Residents may freely and without a license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1976 1 Travelers from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar are pe rm i t ted to exchange limited amounts of U.A.E. d i rh am and Qatar r iyal bank- notes at fixed rates of Dh 10 = BD 1 or QR 10 — BD 1. March 30. Cement could be imported freely, pro- vided it was of acceptable quality. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par v a l ue for the Bang ladesh currency, the Taka, has been established w i th the Fund. On December 31, 1976 the off ic ial exchange rate was Tk 25.9750 = £ stg. 1; Bang ladesh ava i ls i tse lf of w ider m a rg in s. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is subject to ad ju s tment f rom time to t ime. The pound s te r l ing is the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency. Exchange rates for currencies o ther th an s te r l ing are based on the London ma rket rates for the currencies concerned. On December 31, 1976, the spot buy ing and selling rates of the Bang ladesh Bank ( the cen tral b a n k) for au tho r ized dealers were Tk 25.95 and Tk 26.00, respec t ive ly, per <£ stg. 1. On December 3 1, 1976, the spot b u y i ng and se l l ing rates ( te leg raph ic t r a n s f e r s) of au tho r ized dea le rs were Tk 25.9344 and Tk 26.0313, respectively, per £ stg. 1. A d i f f e r ent effective exchange ra te arises th rough the opera t ion of the wage ea rne r 's scheme. On December 3 1, 1976 this rate was Tk 35.85 per pound s te r l ing. Forward t ran sac t ions of the Bang ladesh Bank are conf ined to purchases and sales of s te r l ing and U.S. dollars. Forward fac i l i t ies at au thor ized banks are available for export proceeds in s t e r l ing and U.S. do l la rs and for import paymen ts in sterling and U.S. dollars, as well as cer ta in s te r l ing paymen ts of shipping companies and a i r l ines. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance w i th general policy fo rmu la ted in consultation with the M in is try of Finance. The six foreign and six domestic commerc ial banks have been appointed au thor ized dealers (au tho r ized b a n k s ). The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in is t ry of Commerce (Foreign Trade D iv is ion) is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade trans- actions are conducted through state t rad ing agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and the Bangladesh Jute Marke t ing Corporation. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th coun tr ies w i th wh ich Bang la- desh has bilateral payments agreements l no rma l ly must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Paymen ts to, and receipts f rom, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion ( Ind ia, Iran, Nepal, Pak is tan, and Sri L ank a) in respect of current t ran sac t ions (o ther th an those re la t ing to petro- leum, na tu ral gas, and the ir products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian mone tary un i ts through the Clear- 1 Bu lga r ia, Czechos lovak ia, Egyp t, G e rm an Democra t ic Republic, Hunga ry, Po land, R om a n i a, U.S.S.R., and Yugos lav ia. ing Un ion .2'3 As regards other coun t r ies, settlements no rma l ly take place in sterling and other convertible cu r r en c i es or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Paymen ts for impo r ts may be made to the coun try of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the excep t ion of those coun t r i es f rom which impo r ta t ion is p r o h i b i t e d ); they may be made ( 1) in takas for credit to an account in Bangladesh held by a resident of the coun t ry concerned or of any c o u n t ry in the fo rmer Overseas Sterling Area; (2) in the local currency of the c o u n t ry conce rned; or (3) in pounds s te r l ing, U.S. do l la r s, or any other cu r rency specified by the exchange control au thor i t ies. Export proceeds must be received in f r e e ly conve r t ib le fo re ign exchange, or in takas f rom a Nonres ident Taka Account of a bank in any coun try of the fo rmer Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements w i th Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca a re prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua l s, firms, or companies res ident in coun t r i es ou ts ide Bang ladesh are designated Nonres ident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the coun t ry in wh ich the account holder is pe rmanen t ly residing.4 Specified debit and credit entries to nonresident accoun ts may be made by au thor ized dealers w i thout prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank du r ing the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Cer ta in other debits and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but subject to report- ing ex post. All d ip loma t ic missions operating in Bangladesh, the ir d ip loma t ic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, and in te rna t ional nonp ro f it h um a n i t a r i an organ iza t ions fun c t ion ing in Bangladesh and their expa t r ia te employees are allowed to m a i n t a in Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th receipts of inw a rd remittances in convertible for- eign exchange, and may be deb i ted f ree ly and at any t ime for rem i t tances abroad in convertible currencies and for t r an s f e rs to Nonconve r t ib le Taka Accoun ts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bang ladesh na t iona ls and persons of Bangladesh origin who are wo rk ing abroad are perm i t ted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denom ina ted in pounds sterling or U.S. dol- lars. These accounts may be credited with ( 1) rem i t- - However, p a ym e n ts m a de in the con t ext of the Bang lade sh- P a k i s t an t r a de a g r e em e nt a re r e q u i r ed to be in c o n v e r t i b le f o r e i gn ex ch ange o u t s i de t he A s i an C l e a r ing Un ion A g r e em e n t. :! The Bang ladesh B a nk a n n o u n c es ex ch ange ra tes be tween the As ian C lea r ing Un ion and the member coun tr ies' currenc ies tw ice a mon th. For each period such rates r em a in unchanged unless o therw ise no t i f i ed. 4 The accounts of the Un i ted N a t ions and its o rgan iza t ions, how- ev e r, a re t r e a t ed as re s ident a c c o u n t s. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH tances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking channels; (2) proceeds of con- vertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on temporary visits to Bangladesh, pro- vided they were declared to the customs upon a r r ival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Foreign Cur- rency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, w i thout restric- tion, for the following purposes: ( 1) all local disburse- ments; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) paymen ts for imports of specified goods; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the hand l ing of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes by the account holder and his nominee authorized to operate the account, or travel expenditures up to US$300 by any other person proceeding to destinations abroad other than Burma, India, Nepal, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka. Nonresident accounts may be opened on ly w i th the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either f rom Bangladesh's own resources or w i th foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports financed from Bangladesh's own resources are licensed w i th in the f ramewo rk of a semi- annu al import policy ( impo rt budge t ). Under the import policy for the "shipping" period July-December 1976, items perm iss ib le for impo rt were classified in to four broad categories: ( 1) goods permitted to be imported by "commercial importers," inc lud ing the TCB; (2) raw ma ter ia ls and packing ma ter ia ls permitted to be imported by " indus tr ial units" recognized as such under an en t i t lement system; (3) items permitted to be imported exc lus ive ly by the TCB a n d / or j o i n t ly by the TCB and private sector importers; and (4) items that could be imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme against payment abroad or f rom Foreign Currency Accounts. No provision was made for commercial imports of any other goods, whose impo r ta t ion, there- fore, was de facto prohibited unless financed by fo re ign a id. Imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single country licenses are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for most aid imports. Other import licenses are valid world-wide, except for Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Licenses and letter of credit autho- rization forms issued to commercial importers rema in valid for 9 months and 6 months, respectively, f rom the date of issuance. Licenses issued to indus tr ial con- sumers are valid for 12 months. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire are not normally revalidated except 62 where, owing to circumstances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made. Irrevocable letters of credit must be opened within four months f rom the date of issuance of licenses, except for books and periodicals, which may be imported on a consignment basis. Many imports are reserved for the TCB, including certain chemical and metal products, cement, sugar, certain cotton textiles, and woolen fabrics. In addition, the importation of a number of items is reserved exclusively to other public sector agencies; these include airplane parts, fire engines, coal and coke, cinematographic films, certain cotton textiles, edible oil, fertilizers, insecticides, and wood and timber. There are limited facilities outside the import program for m inor imports by specified end-users, such as hos- pitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and pack ing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- men ts for various industries dur ing each "shipping" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sectors are given an en t i t lement for importation of specified raw materials and pack ing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial con- sumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to indus t r ial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or trans- ferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging indus t r ial exports, industries engaged in export business (o ther than ju te, j u te goods, or t e a ), or with export po ten t ia l, may receive licenses in excess of their normal en t i t lement for the importation of their raw ma te r ial requ i remen ts, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed w i th in six months of the realization of the export proceeds. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by au thor ized dealers when payments are due. Advance paymen ts for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which norma l ly is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles connected w i th authorized t rade t ran sac t ions genera l ly are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. No foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. App l ica t ions for foreign exchange for business travel, medical t rea tmen t, and educa t ion abroad are considered on an ind iv idual basis; as a rule, for busi- ness travel the amount gran ted is US$35 a day, subject to a m a x im um of US$2,000 a ca lendar year for export- ers whose total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk 1 million or above and a max imum of US$525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for those whose export earn ings were less than Tk 1 mil- lion; for medical trea tment the amount gran ted is about £ stg. 400. Travel abroad may be f inanced freely f rom balances held in Foreign Currency Accounts. Foreign nationals wo rk ing in Bang ladesh must obtain approval before mak ing rem i t tances abroad for f am i ly ma in te- nance purposes; such approval is usua l ly gran ted for 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a max imum of £ stg. 200 a mon th (net of tax) if the terms of emp loyment have been approved by the Governmen t. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without ob ta in ing the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 250 into convertible foreign currencies. Resident travelers may take out fore ign cu r rency and travelers checks up to the am o u nt of any travel allocation they have been gran ted. Bang ladesh na t iona ls may take out Tk 20 in domes t ic c u r r e n c y; o therw ise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. The proceeds f r om expo r ts of j u te goods and tea must be received w i th in six months of shipment, those f rom exports of per ishab le goods to Ind ia w i th in two mon ths of sh ipm en t, and those f r om other exports w i th in four mon ths of sh ipmen t. Add i t ional impo rt licenses are issued to ce r ta in export indu s t r ies on the ir export performance. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh na t iona ls w o r k i ng abroad may re ta in the coun terva lue of ce r ta in fo r e ign exchange in Foreign Cu r rency Accounts. The impo rt of Bangladesh cur- rency notes and coins exceed ing Tk 20 is p roh ib i ted. Foreign currency travelers checks and fore ign currency notes may be brought in by non res ident t rave le rs w i th- out l im i t, provided that the to tal am o u nt b rought in is declared to the cus toms au tho r i t ies upon a r r iva l. Capital A ll ou tward t r a n s f e rs of cap i tal r equ i re approva l; such approval is not no rm a l ly g ran ted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital t rans fe rs also require approva l, wh ich gene ra l ly is g iven. All Bang la- desh na t iona ls who are res ident in Bang ladesh must surrender any f o r e i gn exchange com ing in to the ir possession, whe ther held in Bangladesh or ab road, to an authorized dealer w i th in one mon th of the da te of acquisition; movable and immovab le assets, other than foreign exchange, owned in any coun t ry other than Bang ladesh have to be dec lared to the Bang ladesh Bank. Foreign n a t ion a ls r e s id ing in Bang ladesh con t inuou s ly for more th an s ix mon ths are requ i red to su r r end er any fore ign exchange r ep r e s en t ing the ir e a rn ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered, w i th in one mon th of the date of acquisition. BANGLADESH There is no restriction on the importation of securi- ties in to Bangladesh, but the t ran s fer of secur i t ies in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by persons resident in Bangla- desh or outside Bangladesh, and to all fore ign securities held by persons resident in Bangladesh. Approval is given if securities are re tu rned to Bangladesh w i th in a specified period or, if they are sold, if the proceeds are repa t r ia ted to Bangladesh. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and ove rd ra f ts f rom overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a t ime, pro- vided that they are obtained on ly in the currency of the coun t ry or mone tary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing abroad by res ident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is pro- hibited. Bo r row ing by nonresident-owned or non- res iden t-con tro l led enterprises f rom commerc ial banks in Bang ladesh, as well as f rom abroad, requires approval, and loans in local cu r rency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh by authorized dealers also require approva l. Authorized dealers may, how- ever, approve loans, ove rd ra f ts, or credit fac i l i t ies against goods in tended for export f r om Bangladesh to com- pan ies con tro l led by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Au thor ized dealers must obtain approval before m ak ing any long-term loans in fo re ign currencies to residents or non res iden ts, whether secured or unsecured. They are not no rm a l ly perm i t ted to hold short-term fo re ign assets other than small wo rk ing balances. As an amendment to the Foreign Exchange Regula- tion Act of 1947 it was decreed in October 1976 that the Bang ladesh Bank's permission is requ ired for non- residents other than banks to establish or continue a bus iness in Bang ladesh. Foreign firms w i th branches in Bang ladesh are requ ired to subm it statements of their fo re ign exchange earnings as of the end of each quarter of the year. Under the revised Industrial Investment Policy announced on Ju ly 16, 1974, as amended in December 1975, fo re ign private inves tment is permitted in col- labo ra t ion w i th both the Gove rnment and private entre- preneurs. In the private sector, however, fore ign participation will be limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available; where the techno logy invo lved is ve ry comp l ica ted; or where capital ou t lay is h igh; and to indu s t r ies that are either based on local raw ma te r ia ls or that are wholly export oriented. For a new inves tmen t, the fore ign investors generally are to prov ide the en t ire amount of the project's fore ign exchange component as equity capital. The ceiling on p r iva te inves tment is Tk 100 m i l l ion. Tax holidays are gran ted for periods of up to seven years, depending on location. All fo re ign investments require approval by the Inves tment Board. Under this policy, dividends on foreign capital can be rem i t ted net of tax. Also remittable are 50 per cent 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH of the net salary of foreign nationals, up to a max imum of <£ stg. 200 a month a person, and savings f rom earnings, retirement benefits, and personal assets on termination of services or retirement. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any fo rm are prohibited w i thout special perm iss ion, which is not no rma l ly granted. There are no res tr ic t ions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver o rnamen ts ( in c lud ing co ins) and jewe l ry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other fo rm except by licensed indus tr ia l is ts or dentists. Changes during 1976 January 1. The import program for the sh ipp ing period January-June 1976 was announced. The pro- gram was designed to assure fu l ler utilization of existing indus tr ial capacities by l ibe ra l iz ing imports of raw materials and spare parts; indus t r ial exporters were granted additional licenses on the basis of their export performance since Janua ry 1975. Import procedures were fu r ther improved: registered commerc ial impor t- ers were authorized to submit letter of credit au thor iza- tion forms to their nominated banks instead of hav ing to apply for import licenses (Pub l ic Notice No. 1[76] and F.E. Circulars Nos. 5 and 8 ). January 19. Mod ify ing F.E. Circular No. 83 dated December 5, 1972, F.E. Circular No. 6 in fo rmed authorized dealers that they were permitted to reconvert i n to fo re ign exchange fo re ign tou r is ts' u n s p e nt taka up to Tk 250 a person at the t ime of their leaving the country. Previously, the reconvertible amount was l im i ted to Tk 150 a person. January 20. Preferences for duties on a wide range of imported goods grown, manu fac tu red, or produced in the Un i ted Kingdom, British colonies, or Sri Lanka, enacted by no t i f ica t ion SRO 8 4 ( R ) / 66 of J u ne 1966, were suspended (no t i f ica t ion SRO -L /7672707D /Cu s ). January 21. The Government announced it would not allow separate remittances abroad on account of head office expenses by branches of fore ign companies, banks, and firms. Remittances by Bang ladesh branches of foreign companies were limited to their current sur- plus af ter income tax (payab le on the en t i re amount at the fu ll ra te) (F.E. Circular No. 7). January 22. The general au tho r i ty extended to au tho- rized dealers by F.E. Circular No. 86 of 1975 to allow r em i t t an ce of up to Tk 500 for each app l i c ant in a ca lendar year for import of books and magazines was revoked. Instead, readers and students were authorized to apply for licenses under the scheme for actual user imports for books and jou rn a ls for up to Tk 1,500 a person a year; likewise, ind iv idua ls m ight apply for actual user licenses for imports of allopathic drugs and medicines up to Tk 500 a person a year (F.E. Cir- cular No. 8 ). February 26. F.E. Circular No. 21 announced a 64 bar ter t rade agreement w i th Egypt, wh ich was signed on December 27, 1975 and came into force on Janu- ary 1, 1976; the agreement is valid up to December 31, 1976. The commod i ty list inc luded, as exports f rom Bangladesh, raw j u t e, ju te goods, and tea, and as exports f rom Egypt, raw cotton, cotton yarn, pig iron, and rock phosphate. February 27. It was announced that the Bangladesh B ank was prepared to purchase U.S. do l lars f o rw a rd for one mon th on the basis of the spot rate. The prac- tice of m a i n t a i n i ng a spread of US$0.1 per £ stg. 1 was abo l ished. A lso, a grace period of one mon th would be allowed for de l ivery of three mon ths' fo rwa rd sales if conditions so warranted (F.E. Circular No. 22 ). March 2. In mod i f ica t ion of the announcement in F.E. C ircu lar No. 8 of J a n u a ry 22, 1976, authorized dea lers were pe rm i t ted to approve a p p l i c a t i o ns for remittances of up to Tk 1,500 a person a year for impo rt of books, jou rn a l s, and per iod ica ls; l ikew ise, app l ica t ions for rem i t tance of up to Tk 500 a person a year for impo rt of a l lopa th ic medicines and drugs could be approved. No licenses would be required for such impo r ts (F.E. C ircu lar No. 2 4 ). March 17. A ba r ter t rade agreement was signed with Bu lga r ia. Bu lgar ia is to supp ly mach inery, scientific and medical equ ipmen t, Pharmaceuticals, and other com- mod i t ies wh i le Bang ladesh, in exchange, is to supply raw j u t e, j u te goods, l e a th e r, and tea (F .E. C i rcu lar No. 4 9 ). March 18. Ma r t ial Law Regu la t ion No. XI required Bangladesh citizens, except students residing abroad and wage earners employed in fo re ign countries, to declare to the Controller of Foreign Exchange of the Bangladesh Bank, any foreign exchange held w i th in or outside the country. The declaration should also cover immovable or movab le assets, o ther than fore ign exchange, owned in any coun t ry other than Bangladesh. March 24. A barter trade agreement, valid until December 31, was signed with the U.S.S.R. Commodi- ties to be supplied by the U.S.S.R. inc luded machinery, spare parts, steel products, cotton, and medicines; in exchange, Bangladesh was to supply raw jute, ju te goods, goat sk ins, tea, and other products. April 2. A t rade agreement was signed w i th Nepal. Goods to be traded included rice, cereals, and forest products (exports f rom Nepal) and raw cotton, tea, and f ish (exports f rom Bang lade sh ). Also, a transit agreement was signed prov id ing for exemption of import l icens ing and customs inspections for goods in transit through Bangladesh to Nepal. April 26. Bangladesh established a central rate for the taka of Tk 28.10 = £ stg. 1 and availed itself of w ider marg ins. April 30. Na t iona ls res id ing in Bangladesh holding assets abroad had to remit income derived thereon to Bangladesh regularly. Assets were not to be sold with- out approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Liquidation pro- ceeds had to be repatriated through normal banking ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution channe ls as and when assets held abroad were d is in- vested (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 56 ). April 30. A trade agreement was signed w i th Paki- stan providing for the commencement of trade covering a wide range of commodities and the establishment of banking arrangemen ts between the two countries. Trad- ing in commod i t ies covered by the a r rangement was sub- ject to exchange and trade control regu la t ions of both countries. Paymen ts for impor ts were to be made in convertible fore ign exchange outside the A s ian C lea r ing Un ion a r r a n g em e nt (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 6 1 ). June 7. Quo t a t ion of export prices for raw j u te and ju te produc ts was sw i tched f rom pound s t e r l ing to U.S. dollars (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 6 8 ). June 7. The cen tral ra te of the t a ka was ad ju s t ed from Tk 28.1 = £ stg. 1 to Tk 26.7 = £ stg. 1 (F.E. C ircu lar No. 66 ). June 17. As a first step in imp l em en t ing the Bangkok Agreement, signed on Ju ly 31, 1975, Bangladesh, Ind ia, Korea, and Sri Lanka imp lemen ted mu tual p re fe ren t ial tariff cuts a f fec t ing some US$25 m i l l ion worth of a n n u al trade. July 1. The import program for the July-December 1976 shipping period was announced. The ma in features of the new impo rt program were an increase in the entitlements of indu s t r i al impo r te rs based on the ir past export pe r fo rmance and an expans ion of i tems eligible to be impor ted by p r iva te comme rc ial impo r te rs, by end users, and und er the wage ea rne r 's scheme (Pub l ic Notice No. 4 0 ( 7 6) and F.E. C i rcu lar No. 90 ). July 17. The dead l ine for impo r ts und er the cred it agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. of December 1, 1972 was extended u n t il December 31, 1977. E f fec t ive J a n u a ry 1, 1976, prices, guaran tees, letters of credit, and b i l ls for contracts under this agreement had to be denominated in U.S. dollars, wh i le the currency of payment con- tinued to be the pound sterling (F.E. Circular No. 93, mod ify ing F.E. Circular No. 39 of 1973). August 2. Foreign firms w i th branches in Bangladesh (excluding fo re ign b a n k s) were ins truc ted by the Bang- ladesh Bank hence fo r th to subm it qua r te r ly statements of their fore ign exchange earn ings as of March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year (F.E. Circular No. 102). August 14. It was announced that the Bangladesh Bank would hence fo r th sell U.S. do l lars forward in respect of cash impo r ts. Fu r the rmo re, it would provide forward cover fac i l i t ies in respect of imports und er com- modity loans, credits, and gran ts against which impo r t ing agencies would be required to deposit counterpart taka funds into the Government's account (F.E. Circular No. 104). August 17. It was announced that the Bangladesh Bank would henceforth sell U.S. dollars forward for three and six months to authorized banks, in multiples of US$1,000 with a m in imum of US$10,000 (F.E. Cir- cular No. 109). August 26. Private exporters were allowed to export BANGLADESH ju te goods in the ir own names under licenses issued by the Bang ladesh Ju te Mills Corporation (F.E. Circular No. 118). August 27. Supp lemen t ing the provisions under the Bangladesh-Pakistan trade agreement (F.E. Circular No. 61 of May 17, 1976), it was decreed that shipment of goods under the agreement must be effected by Bangladesh and Pak is tan flag vessels only (F.E. Circular No. 119 ). September 20. Rem i t tances of foreign bank charges in respect of letters of credit opened for imports of goods and services in to Bangladesh were prohibited; this p roh ib i t ion also app l ied to impor ts und er loans, credits, g r an t s, and t rade ag reemen ts un le ss specified o the rw ise (F.E. C i r cu l ar No. 127 ). It was c lar if ied in F.E. Circu- lar No. 146 of October 27, 1976 that the p roh ib i t ion wou ld not apply to exports in the private sector. September 21. The Bangladesh Sh ipp ing Corpora t ion was au thor ized to issue waiver certificates at its dis- cretion enab l ing the sh ipment of goods under the Bang ladesh-Pak is tan trade agreement (F.E. Circular No. 61 of May 17, 1976) to be effected also by third- coun try flag vessels (F.E. Circular No. 128, mod ify ing F.E. C ircu lar No. 119). October 18. A commercial cooperation agreement was signed w i th the European Commun i ty providing for p romo t ion of t rade, increased economic and com- merc ial cooperation in th i rd world coun tr ies, and a review of possible measures for overcom ing trade bar- r ie rs and ad ap t ing ma rket s t ruc tu re s. Thus, as part of the ag reemen t, the European C omm u n i ty rendered per- m a n e nt ce r ta in tempo ra ry customs du ty reduc t ions and suspens ions such as on fish, tea, and specified h ides and sk ins. October 19. The Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion Act of 1947 was amended to provide that the permission of the Bangladesh Bank was a prerequisite for a person w ish ing to act or accept an appo in tment as agent in t rad ing or commercial transactions, or as a technical or management advisor in Bangladesh of a foreign business other th an banks; likewise, the Bangladesh Bank's per- m iss ion was requ i red for nonres iden ts to establish or con t inue a bus iness in Bangladesh (F.E. Circular No. 1 4 1 ). October 22. A l loca t ions of Saudi A rab ian riyals to H a jj p i lg r ims, o r ig in a l ly am o u n t i ng to SRls 1,862 a person, were supp lemen ted by an add i t ional SRls 143 (or the U.S. do l l ar e q u i v a l e n t) for each p i l g r im (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 143 ). November 3. The off ic ial rate of the taka was appre- ciated f rom Tk 26.7 = <£ stg. 1 to Tk 25.45 = <£ stg. 1 (F.E. Circular No. 152). December 30. The Bangladesh Bank's spot buy ing rate was depreciated f rom Tk 25.40 = <£ stg. 1 to Tk 25.95 = <£ stg. 1 and the selling rate from Tk 25.50 = <£ stg. 1 to Tk 26.00 = <£ stg. 1 with correspond- ing revisions in the rates of authorized banks for the public (F.E. Circular No. 177). 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Barbados Dollar. A central rate of BDS$2 = US$1 has been established, and Barbados avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Barbados buys and sells U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling; under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authori- ties, it sells but does not purchase East Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Dealings by the Central Bank are chiefly with the commercial banks. The Central Bank has fixed rates for dealings in East Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars; the rates include commission charges of Vs of 1 per cent buy ing and l/2 of 1 per cent selling for the U.S. dollar and Vs of I per cent selling for the other currencies. The Central Bank quotes on a daily basis its dealing rates for Canad ian dollars and pounds sterling; commission charges of %<•> of 1 per cent buying and 5/s of 1 per cent selling for these currencies are included in the rates. The Central Bank regulates the commission which may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in East Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars; commission on deal- ings by the commercial banks in Canad ian dollars and other currencies is not so regulated. On December 31, 1976, the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0100, respectively, per US$1, and those for sterling were BDS$3.3953 and BDS$3.4230, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangemen ts w i th the East Caribbean Currency Authority and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, the Central Bank of Barbados purchases f rom the commercial banks currency notes issued by these mone tary au thor i t ies and repa tr ia tes them in re tu rn for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Barbados notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined through the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the Central Bank of Barbados, to which the Minister of Finance has delegated the pe r fo rmance of his ordinary functions as the Exchange Control Authority. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import pay- ments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange 66 control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South A f r ica. Trade controls are admin- istered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Con- sumer Affairs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR icoM) ,1 may be made in sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Bar- bados dollars f rom External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign cur- rency 2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM coun- tries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of other countries.3 Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are maintained in fo re ign currencies, is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in for- eign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, subject to the conditions of approval at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require ind iv idual approva l. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are ma in ta ined in Barbados dol- lars. They may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign currencies, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other External Accounts, w i th bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and with payments by residents for wh ich general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other paymen ts covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any ove rd ra f ts require ind iv idual approval. 1 The CAR ICOM coun t r ies are An t igu a, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G r e n a d a, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon t s e r r a t, S t. K i t ts -Nev is -Angu i l la, St. Luc ia, St. V incen t, and T r in idad and Tobago. - Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. a Residents of Barbados are also pe rm i t ted to ma in ta in such accounts under similar conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Exchange Control Act, 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents which are ineligible for t rans fer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be w i thdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited and imports originating in the People's Republic of China, the CMEA countries, North Korea, Japan, and Portugal require individual licenses. Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs and beer. Certain other commodities require indi- vidual licenses; these include passenger automobiles, buses, refr igera tors, cement, un re f ined gold, sewing machines, certain petroleum products, certain foods tuffs and beverages, and cer ta in textiles. Ind iv idual licenses are also required for imports of commodities subject to the provisions of the Oil and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. Where commodities are placed under license, it is necessary to seek a license, whether the goods are being imported f rom CAR ICOM coun tr ies or else- where. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and subm iss ion of documen ta ry evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran ts) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire exchange control approval. Except for transac t ions invo lv ing residents of Rhodesia and South A f r ica, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by app rop r ia te documen ta ry evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of fo re ign exchange for certain payments of a personal na tu re and for sundry payments. These include fo re ign travel ( f or which up to BDS$1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to BDS$4,500 a person a calendar year for business t r a v e l ), expenses of educa t ion abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a y e a r ), subscriptions to news- papers and magaz ines, income tax r e fund s, official pay- ments, and life insurance prem iums. With the exception of tour ism, applications for add i t ional amoun ts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unau tho- rized t ran s fer of capital seems to be invo lved. Applica- tions in respect of tourism in excess of BDS$ 1,500 a person are considered on the ir merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in BARBADOS domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Residents trave l ing to any destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these goods include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum prod- ucts. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign cur- rencies are surrendered w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may b r ing in freely notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resident travelers are requ ired to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All ou tward capital t rans fe rs require exchange control approval. Direct investments outside Barbados by resi- dents requ ire exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes also requires exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an au thor ized depository in Barbados and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an au thor ized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, requ ire exchange control approval, which is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. Dowries in the fo rm of settlements, and cash gifts no rma l ly up to BDS$500 a donor a year may be trans- fe r red, with exchange control approval, to nonresidents; the au thor i ty to approve cash gifts up to BDS$50 a donor a year is delegated to authorized dealers. Emi- g ra t ing Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances f rom their declared assets at the rate of BDS$24,000 a fam i ly unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications f rom fore ign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up pe rmanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS Direct investment in Barbados by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and to the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of secu- rities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an ade- quate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire in Barbados real estate for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency f inanc ing is not ordi- narily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repa- triated freely on the basis of a rate of re turn on the original foreign investment, calculated at the following rates: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for resi- dents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A gold coin w i th a face value of BDS$100 is legal tender and is in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an autho- rized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for indus tr ial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the M in is t ry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer A f fa i r s; no license is required to export gold but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1976 Du r ing the year, additional goods were made subject to specific import license. January 1. The CARICOM common external tariff came into force. This terminated Barbados' Common- wealth tariff preferences. June 23. Authorized dealers required the prior per- mission of the Central Bank to redesignate as External Accounts the local bank accounts of residents leaving Barbados to take up permanent residence abroad. October 12. The Miscellaneous Controls (General Open Import License) Regulations, 1976 lifted a number of restrictions on the source of import and on items imported. Goods no longer requiring licensing included pork, lamb, poultry, eggs, evaporated or condensed milk, certain vegetables, plantains, pineapples, oranges, tea, certain spices, rice, and wheat flour. October 18. The Customs (Rate of Exchange) Notice, 1976 was published. For customs valuation pur- poses, the rates of exchange on imported goods would be the selling rates for sight drafts. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG (Position on January 1, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg have established central rates of BF /L ux F 48.6572 = SDR 1, and avail themselves of w ider marg ins. There are two spot exchange ma rke ts— the official (reglemente or regu la ted) and the f ree; these markets are separated and foreign currency acquired in one may not be sold in the other. Most current transac- tions are settled in the off ic ial ma rket and most cap i tal transac t ions in the f ree ma rke t. In the official exchange m a rk e t, on ly au tho r ized banks may ca r ry out exchange transac t ions pe rm i t ted in t h at market.1 Belgium-Luxembourg ma in ta ins a max imum margin of 21A per cent for exchange rates in the official market between the Belgian f ranc /Luxembou rg f r anc and the Danish krone, the deutsche ma rk, the Nether- lands gu i lder, the No rweg ian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced ma rg ins a re m a in t a in ed for any other currency. On December 31, 1976 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 35.88!4 and BF 36.0814, respectively, per US$1. Most exchange transac t ions are settled through the official ma rke t. For all inwa rd and ou twa rd pay- ments in excess of BF 10 million through that ma rke t, supporting documents must be submitted to the Belgo- Luxembourg Exchange Institute ( Ins t i tut Belgo-Luxem- bourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange marke t, all currenc ies ( i n c l u d i ng domestic and foreign bankno te s) may be bought and sold at free ly f l u c t u a t i ng rates. On December 31, 1976 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 35.70 buying, and BF 35.80 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one exchange market or the other must be used; in a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange ma rket in which conversion is to be effec ted. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies: however, there are special regulations for the zaire. The external position of authorized banks in the offi- cial market is subject to control; a ce i l ing has been imposed on the net spot creditor and debtor position in 1 The currencies dealt with in the off ic ial m a r k et are Au s t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish k ron e r, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African r and, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are re fe r red to in this survey as the convertible currencies. Although Za ir ian currency (the zai're) is offi- cially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zai're in settlements w i th coun tr ies other th an Zaire, or the exchange of the zai're for convertible Belgian f r an cs or other convertible currencies. The Australian dollar and the South African rand, although t raded in the official m a r k e t, are not officially quoted. With effect f r om Feb rua ry 1, 1977 the Ir ish pound also was admitted to the official market w i thout be ing o f f ic ia l ly quo ted. fo re ign currencies, and the overall foreign currency posi- tion (spot and fo rw a rd comb ined) should normally be close to balance and must not register a substantial cred- itor or debtor position. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market until a for- eign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make fo r- wa rd purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial m a rk et through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency thus purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days f rom delivery (on the delivery date itself if the m a tu r i ty of the fo rw a rd contract is less than 15 d ay s ); exchange not used w i t h in that period mu st be resold in the o f f ic ial ma rke t. Profits resulting f rom fo rwa rd con- trac ts not covering authorized inward or ou tward pay- ments through the official market must be given up to the Treasury. Any resident or nonresident, banks inc luded, may deal in any currency in the free market. Forward t ransac t ions in the f ree ma rke t, whether by b anks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a pe rm i t ted und e r ly ing t ran sac t ion. There is no rma l ly no in te rven t ion in either forward exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg fo rma l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion —BLEU ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control t e r r i to ry in r e l a t ion to other coun t r ies. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange I n s t i t u t e. Exchange control powers for most paymen ts and t ran s fe rs are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935 (revised with effect f rom August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of Janua ry 29, 1963 and with effect f rom May 1, 1972 by a Protocol of October 27, 1971) conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Adm in i s t ra t ive Commission the au tho r i ty to license t rade transac t ions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requ iremen ts operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appro- priate exchange ma rket or, where paymen ts in Belgian 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appro- priate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries2 and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus- trial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other com- mercial expenses, including insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, sub- scriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers ( 1) administration expenses, (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and ( 3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term invest- ments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family main- tenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immi- grants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET A ,B C D A, B, C, D A ,B C D A ,B C D Outward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or tree Free Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Any Official Official or free Free Free Bilateral Convertible Official Bilateral Bilateral Convertible Other Any Official or free Free Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral * Convertible ) Convertible J or Financial Financial Bilateral or Convertible * ) Bilateral or j Convertible * Bilateral* * Bilateral Account of the c o u n t ry concerned. Settlements with Za'ire may a l te rna t ive ly be made by debit or cred it to Convertible Accoun ts in za ires held w i th banks in Z a i r e. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, trans- actions contained in Lists A and B must be settled through the official market (or, if made in Belgian and Luxembourg francs, through Convertible Accounts) and those contained in List D through the free market (or through Financial Accounts). Transactions in List C 2 The bilateral group countries are Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. The BLEU is not a party, however, to any bilateral paymen ts agreements. may be settled through either the official or the free market (or through either Convertible or Financial Accoun ts). Transactions that may or must be settled through the free market may also be effected in domestic or fore ign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.3 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for re transfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresi- dent of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred free ly to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authoriza- tion by the IBLC. Convertible Accounts may be held in the fo rm of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,4 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the f ree marke t, and they may be credited freely w i th proceeds f r om the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free mar- ket. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by fo re ign travelers in Belgium- Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to F inanc ial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are f ree. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any cu r rency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see foo tno te 2 ), and they are related to the coun t ry of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited w i th proceeds 3 International organizations and fo r e ign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU m a in t a in Special Accoun ts, which are equiva- lent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of the organ iza t ions and representations mentioned may ma in ta in Special Convertible Accounts. 4 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic rep- resentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified in te rna t ional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals res id ing in Bu rund i, Rwanda, or Z a i r e, and BLEU na t iona ls re s id ing ab road tempo ra r i ly for professional reasons are au tho r i z ed to m a i n t a in Assimilated Resi- dent Accounts. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam,5 and ( 2) a number of imports from all other countries except Luxembourg.0 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, cer- ta in agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petro- leum products, and diamonds. All other commodities are f ree of license and quantitative restriction; only a form completed by the importer and giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required, which must be presented to an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to ind iv idual l icens ing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to import levies which have replaced all previ- ous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Imports of beef and cattle f rom "third" countries are subject to safeguard clauses. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The autho- rized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that fore ign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due; for all payments in excess of BF 50,000 the bank must require documentary proof of the due date. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the autho- rized bank submits a request to the central exchange con- trol authority for special permission. Exchange control approval is also required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance; prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for payments exceed- ing BF 10 million and for payments more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance, except, in the latter •" Impo rt licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. (i Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when impor ted f r om the Netherlands or f rom other EEC countries. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG case, if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance pay- ment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which payment is expected to be received f rom the foreign buyer. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Support- ing documents must be presented to an authorized bank for all payments in excess of BF 50,000; for payments exceeding BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of the supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area coun- tries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments to bilateral countries (see foot- note 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the coun- try concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convertible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries except Luxembourg.7 All other exports are free of license; only a form completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The autho- rized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange marke t), or, alternatively, 7 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 72 they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be col- lected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceed- ing BF 10 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these cur- rencies. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 mil- lion through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts f rom other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or for- eign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, fam i ly maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances but not transactions of a financial character, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents or nonresidents are f ree, but the f i n a n c i al settle- ment of such t ransac t ions must con fo rm to the general regulations for cap i tal transac t ions. The pr ior approval of the M in i s ter of F inance is requ ired for issues of securities on the Belgian cap i tal m a r k et by non re s iden t s; most of the Belgian f r a nc bond issues on the domes t ic cap i tal ma rket have in practice been made by i n t e r n a- tional organ iza t ions, wh i le issues of Eu robonds denom i- nated in Belgian f rancs are not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed. The Luxembourg au tho r i t ies f rom t ime to t ime have per- mitted Eurobond issues denom ina ted in Luxembou rg f r an c s. Public bids by fo re ign compan ies or i n d i v i d u a ls for the pu rcha se or exchange of sha res issued by Be lg ian compan ies requ i re the p r ior app rov al of the M i n i s t ry of F inance. Ou twa rd p a ym e n ts for c a p i t al t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th b i l a t e r al c o u n t r i es mu st be m ade o n ly in Be lg ian or L u x em b o u rg f r a n cs t h r o u gh B i l a t e r al A c c o u n ts o r, in the case of Zai're, in z a i r e s; i nw a rd p a ym e n ts for cap i- tal t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th b i l a t e r al c o u n t r i es may be made in Be lg ian or L u x em b o u rg f r a n cs t h r o u gh B i l a t e r al Accoun t s, in any c u r r e n cy t h r o u gh the f r ee m a r k e t, o r, in the case of Z a i r e, in za i res. Gold Res iden ts may f r e e ly pu rcha se, ho ld, and se ll gold in the f o rm of co ins or ba rs, at home or ab road. Impo r ts and expor ts of gold in these f o rms by re s iden ts and non- residents are un r e s t r i c t ed and f r ee of l icense. Se t t lemen ts in respect of gold t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th c o n v e r t i b le area coun t r ies (o ther t h an p a ym e n ts for sem iprocessed gold impor ted by p ro fess ional u s e r s) may o n ly be m ade through the f r ee m a r k e t, th rough F i n a n c i al A c c o u n ts in Be lg ian or Lux embou rg f r a n c s, or in dom e s t ic or f o r e i gn bankno te s. No cu s toms du t i es or o ther cha rges are levied on impo r ts or expo r ts of gold, except im p o r ts for indu s t r i al or h a n d i c r a ft purposes. Licenses a re r e q u i r ed for impo r ts of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who have to m a ke p a ym e nt th rough the o f f ic ial m a r k e t. T r an s a c t ions in mon e t a ry gold a re exempt f r om va lue -added tax in Be lg ium but not in Luxembourg. Changes during 1976 In add i t ion to the changes l is ted be low, c e r t a in changes in qu an t i t a t ive impo rt r e g u l a t i o ns were m ade in accor- dance w i th EEC decisions, r egu l a t ion s, and d i r e c t iv e s; most of these re la ted to tex t i les or beef and vea l. January 12. The Luxembou rg B a n k i ng Comm i s s ioner introduced stricter r epo r t ing r e q u i r em e n ts r eg a rd ing the ma tur i ty s t ruc tu re of Lux embou rg b a n k s' fo r e ign cur- rency assets and l iab i l i t ie s. February 19. Exports of potatoes became sub ject to export levies u n t il June 30, in acco rdance w i th EEC regulations. February 27. The ce i l ing on the am o u nt of gua ran- tees that could be gran ted, for its own accoun t, by the Office Na t ional du Ducroire, was increased f r om BF 100 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG b i l l ion to BF 120 b i l l ion. It was f u r t h er increased to BF 140 b i l l ion on November 16. March 1. The restrictions on the use by residents of checks denom ina ted in Belgian or Luxembourg francs in m ak ing paymen ts in favor of nonresidents were eased. March 10. The ce i l ing on the l iab i l i t ies ( in c lud ing all endorsements and guaran tees) of the Rediscount and Gua ran tee In s t i tu te was increased f rom BF 45 b i l l ion to BF 50 b i l l ion. March 15. France aga in suspended its pa r t ic ipa t ion in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r rangemen t. Accord- ing ly, the BLEU ceased to observe m a x im um ma rg ins of 2]/4 per cent for the French f r an c. At the same t ime, the special Bene lux a r r ang em ent was te rm ina ted under which Be lg ium -Luxembou rg and the N e th e r l ands had m a i n- t a in ed m a x im um ma rg ins of 11A per cent ra ther t h an 2l/4 per cent for each other's currencies. March 22. The 1972 regulation se t t ing a coeff ic ient for bank s' inve s tment in Belgian Gove rnment securities was re in t roduced, in the fo rm of a mone ta ry policy recommenda t ion for the period end ing Ap r il 30. Subse- q u e n t ly it was reinstated in the fo rm of an ob l iga t ion to m a i n t a in a m i n im um amount of such securities. This sys tem was revoked on J u ne 2, r e in t rodu c ed on J u ly 23, and revoked a g a in on December 1. April I. Exchange controls over impo rt p aym en t s, t r a n s it t r ad e, and fo rw a rd exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns were t igh t en ed. Au tho r ized b a n ks were requ i red to s u bm it s u p p o r t i ng do cum en ts to p r ior e x am i n a t i on by the IBLC before m a k i ng any impo rt p a ym e nt e a r l i er t h an 30 days before the prospec t ive da te of im p o r t a t i o n. In a d d i t i o n, for any p a ym e nt in excess of B F /L ux F 50,000, b a n ks were requ i red to a sce r ta in that it was not be ing m ade before the due da te and the re fo re had to request the subm i s s ion of d o c um e n t a t i on e s t a b l i s h i ng the due da te of the p a ym e n t. Paymen ts to the n o n r e s i d e nt se l ler of goods invo lved in a t r a n s it t rade t r an s a c t ion cou ld, in p r i n c i p l e, no longer be made be fo re p a ym e nt f r om the fo re ign buyer had been received; payment up to th ree mon ths be fo re t h at da te cou ld, however, be made ( 1) where the fo r e ign c u r r e n cy to be received f r om the non r e s id ent buyer had been sold fo rw a rd on the o f f i c i al m a r k e t, th rough the same b a n k, at th ree mon ths or less, or (2) whe re the fo re ign cu r r en cy needed to m ake the p a ym e nt had been borrowed on the o f f ic ial m a rk et f r om an au tho r ized b a n k, prov ided th at the bo r row ing was not repa id before p a ym e nt f r om the fo re ign buyer was received. For all fo rwa rd sales of fo re ign currency on the off i- c ial m a rk et w i th a m a t u r i ty of less th an 15 days, au tho- rized b anks were requ i red, before conc lud ing the fo rwa rd exchange con t rac t, to have in t h e ir possession any docu- m e n t a ry evidence needed to execute an au thor ized pay- ment in f avor of a non res iden t; the fore ign currency sold fo rwa rd had to be used on the date of its delivery to execute the in tended payment (or, where th is proved 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG impossible, the authorized bank had to repurchase the foreign currency on the official market upon expiry of the fo rwa rd con t rac t ). If the forward exchange contracts concerned exceeded the equivalent of BF /Lux F 10 mil- lion, banks were in addition required to subm it the nec- essary supporting documents to the IBLC for approval before concluding the forward contract. April 21. Some of the regulations issued on April 1 were eased. Prior ex am in a t ion of sh ipp ing documen ts and suppor t- ing evidence by the IBLC for import paymen ts earlier than 30 days before the prospective date of impor ta t ion ceased to be required where payment took place either under a documentary credit or on a documen ta ry collec- tion basis, provided in the la t ter case that documen ts were subm i t ted show ing that the goods had a lready been shipped to the BLEU; fu r the rmo re, in these cases banks no longer were required to ascertain f rom the impor ter the date of impo r ta t ion, if the goods concerned were subject to import license. Where trans it trade was involved, authorized banks were now pe rm i t ted to make the payment to the non- resident seller up to three mon ths before the date on which the payment f rom the fo re ign buyer was expected to be received, provided that suppo r t ing documen ts were presented to the IBLC for paymen ts exceeding B F / L u xF 10 million. April 28. Authorized banks and licensed exchange dealers agreed not to acqu ire I t a l i an b ankno t es in denom ina t ions of Lit 50,000 and Lit 100,000. June 9. A general permission to au thor ized banks was issued allowing them, under cer ta in cond i t ions and sub- ject to ce r ta in sa fegua rds, to sell fo re ign cu r rency on the official market to residents before ob ta in ing the necessary suppo r t ing documen ts. Banks could u n t il f u r t h er notice und e r t ake such sales to nonbank res iden ts, e i ther spot or for less th an 15 days fo rwa rd, before ob t a in ing the documentation needed for mak ing a payment in favor of a non res iden t, prov ided that the cus tomer unde r took to present the documen ts to the b ank not la ter th an the second work ing day a f t er the sale of the fo re ign cu r- rency. Where the bank had to subm it th is do cum en t a- t ion to the IBLC, the fo re ign cu r rency sold could be kept in a special temporary account u n t il the b ank received the IBLC's decision. Banks had to repurchase the fo r e ign exchange on the official marke t, at the ir own in i t ia t ive, where these con- ditions were not met, where payment was not made on the day the fo re ign cu r rency was delivered, or whe re payment was not made on the day the IBLC decision authorizing the payment was received. In all cases of repurchase, banks had to deduct and t r a n s f er to the IBLC, for the account of the Treasury, any exchange profit in excess of BF /Lux F 1,000. June 18. The IBLC tightened the supe rv i s ion over authorized banks' fo re ign currency positions in the off i- cial market. 74 October 4. Un t il fu r th er notice the above-mentioned general permission to authorized banks of June 9, together with the related implementing provisions of the same date, were suspended. These facilities were restored on October 25. October 18. An exchange rate rea l ignment took place w i th in the European common marg ins arrangement. The central rates of the Belgian f ranc and the Luxembourg f r anc and the ir relationship to the European monetary un it of account were ma in ta ined unchanged. The inter- vention rates for the other currencies par t ic ipa t ing in the arrangement were modified accordingly, w i th the excep- tion of those for the Ne ther lands guilder, which remained unchanged. November 29. The Luxembourg B ank ing Commis- sioner requested Luxembourg banks to report by Janu- ary 21, 1977 the geographic breakdown and maturity s t ruc tu re of the ir claims (as well as unu t i l ized irrevoca- ble credit l i n e s) as at December 31, 1976 on coun tr ies other th an the EEC members, Sw i tzer land, Sweden, the Un i ted States, Canada, and Japan. The da ta had to be provided separa te ly for each of seven currenc ies, inc lud- ing the Belgian f r a n c. December 22. The Na t ional Bank of Be lg ium requested Belgian banks to report the geographic breakdown of the ir long- term (mo re than one y e a r) claims as at December 31, 1976 on coun t r ies other than the EEC members, Sw i tze r land, Sweden, the Un i ted States, Can- ada, and J ap an. The da ta had to be provided separately for each of seven currencies, inc lud ing the Belgian franc. The f o l l ow i ng changes took p lace on J a n u a ry 1, 1977: January 1. A general permission came into effect wh ich perm i t ted au tho r ized banks to execute cer ta in p aym en ts f rom non res iden ts on the basis of an oral dec la ra t ion by the bene f ic ia ry as to the n a tu re of the transac t ion and before receiving the prescribed support- ing documen t s. The f a c i l i ty was subject to a w r i t ten u n d e r t a k i ng by the bene f ic ia ry to the effect that the docu- men ts wou ld be subm i t ted w i th in f ive wo rk ing days. The general permission allowed banks to purchase on the o f f ic ial ma rket f rom res iden ts fo r e ign currency received in p aym ent f r om nonres iden ts, to credit resi- den ts on o f f ic ial ma rket accoun ts w i th fo re ign currency received in p aym ent f r om non res iden ts, and to execute in f avor of residents paymen ts in Belgian or Luxem- bourg f r a n cs to the debit of Convertible or B i la teral Foreign Accoun ts, provided in all cases that the bene- ficiary made an oral dec la ra t ion a l low ing the bank to de term ine whether the na ture of the transaction was such as to allow the use of the p aym ent methods re fe r red to. January 1. A general permission came in to effect wh ich pe rm i t ted au thor ized banks to unde r take ce r ta in fo rwa rd a rb i t rage t ran sac t ions between fo re ign cu r ren- cies in the o f f ic ial ma rket for the account of resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution customers. Such transactions were permitted when cus- tomers were to receive payments in foreign currency from nonresidents (for transactions for which the sale of the foreign currency in the official market was either prescribed or au thor ized) and at the same t ime had to make payments in another foreign currency ( for t rans- actions for which payment in foreign cu r rency in the official market was either authorized or prescribed), Any exchange profit resulting from forward arbitrage transactions not covering authorized inward or outward payments through the off ic ial ma rket had to be given up to the Treasury. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or cen t ral ra te for the cu r r en cy of Ben in has been established w i th the F u n d. The u n it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc,1 wh ich is o f f ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange transac t ions in French f ranc s, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a com- mission of Mo of 1 per m i ll on t ran s fe rs f rom coun tr ies outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion and a com- mission of 2.50 per m i ll on t ran s fe rs to coun tr ies outside the Un ion .2 Exchange rates for fore ign currenc ies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, part of wh ich mu st be su r rende red to the Treasury. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Benin's exchange control measures do not app ly to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories, except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun tr ies whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun tr ies may be made f ree ly. All other countries, except Ben in i tse lf, are considered for- eign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th fore ign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capital controls, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered fore ign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the Directorate of External Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism, which also supervises bo r row ing abroad, the issu ing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign secu- rities in Benin, inward direct investment, all investment in foreign countries, and the solicitation of funds in Ben in for placement in fore ign countries. The M in is t ry of Finance, however, has the ma in responsibility for d raw ing up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to collect (e i ther direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and notaries pub l ic) any in fo r- ma t ion necessary to compile the ba lance of paymen ts 1 The CFA f r anc is issued by the B anque Cen t ra le des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r r en cy in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member coun tr ies of the Un ion are exempt f rom commissions. 76 statistics. A ll exchange t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized inter- med ia r ies. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of Ex ternal Commerce. Exports of d iamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval gran ted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious me ta ls and precious m ine ral materials, but these are inope ra t ive. Impo rt ce r t i f ica tes for l ibera l ized commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in OECD coun t r ies other t h an Japan are made out by the impo r ter h imse lf and approved by the D i rec to ra te of Ex te rnal Commerce. Prescription of Currency Ben in is an Opera t ions Account coun t ry of the French F ranc A rea, s ince the BCEAO m a i n t a i ns an Operations Account w i th the French T rea su ry; se t t lemen ts w i th France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account coun tr ies of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f r an c s, French f r an c s, or the currency of any other Ope ra t ions Account coun t ry. Settlements w i th The Gamb ia, Gh an a, Liberia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are n o rm a l ly made th rough the West A f r i c an C lear ing House. Settlements w i th all other countries are u s u a l ly made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currenc ies of those coun t r ies or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain se t t lemen ts w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, how- ever, are made th rough special accoun ts .3 All settle- men ts w i th Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions p e r t a i n i ng to non re s ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The cred i t ing to nonresident accounts of CFA bankno tes, French bank- notes, or bankno tes issued by any other in s t i tu te of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury is not p e rm i t t ed, except for BCEAO bankno tes ma i led direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by au thor ized banks' fo re ign correspondents for credit to the Foreign Accounts in Francs opened for the la t ter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports or ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain impo r ts, such as narcotics, are prohibited f rom all sources. The Societe Nationale d'Importation du Benin ( SON IB) has a monopoly over the impo r ta t ion of sugar, rice, whea t, wheat flour, condensed m i lk, alcoholic bev- erages, tobacco, and khaki cloth. Certain other agencies, such as the Societe Ben ino ise pour le Deve loppement des ;J There Hungary. are inopera t ive p a ym e n ts ag r e em en ts with Egypt and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ressources A n im a l es ( S O D E R A ), have an im p o rt monop- o ly for o ther spec i f ied c omm o d i t i e s. Im p o r ts of a ll o th er goods o r i g i n a t i ng in coun t r i es in the F r en ch F r a nc A rea m ay be made f r e e ly w i t h o ut an im p o rt l icen se. Im p o r ts of a ll o ther goods o r i g i n a t i ng in EEC c o u n t r i es o th er than F rance may also be m a de f r e e l y; the se goods r e q u i re a l i c en s e, wh ich is issued a u t o m a t i c a l l y. C e r t a in impo r ts a re l ibera l ized w h en o r i g i n a t i ng in OECD coun- t r ies o ther t h an J a p an a nd o n ly r e q u i re an im p o rt ce r- t i f i c a te made out by the im p o r t er h i m s e l f. Im p o r ts of non l ibe ra l ized commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in OECD coun- t r ie s, a ll impo r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in J a p a n, a nd a ll im p o r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in non -OECD c o u n t r i es a re s u b j e ct to l i c e n s- ing; they a re a dm i t t ed in a c co rd an ce w i th an a n n u al impo rt p rog ram. U n d er t h is p r o g r am, a g lob al q u o ta is es tab l ished f or im p o r ts f r om a ll c o u n t r i es o u t s i de t he French F ranc A rea except EEC c o u n t r i e s. C e r t a in F rench t e x t i l es processed in f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es a re l i c e n s ed separately. A ll im p o r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in fo r e ign c o u n t r i e s, when valued at more t h an CFAF 500,000, mu st be dom ic i led with an au tho r ized b ank. The im p o rt l icenses or impo rt ce r t i f ica tes en t i t le im p o r t e rs to pu rchase the necessary exchange, but not ea r l ier t h an e ight days be fo re sh ipm ent if a d o c um e n t a ry c red it is opened or one m o n th be fo re the payment is due if the c omm o d i t i es have a l r e ady been impor ted. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica a re p roh ib i ted. Paymen ts for inv i s ib l es to France (as defined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the o ther Op e r a t ions Account coun t r ies in the French F ranc Area are per- m i t ted f r e e ly; those to o ther c o u n t r i es are sub ject to the approval of the D i rec to ra te of E x t e r n al Comme rce, but for m a ny types of inv is ib les the app rov al a u t h o r i ty has been delegated to au tho r ized b ank s. Au tho r i z ed b anks and the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion have been empowered to make paymen ts abroad f ree ly on b eh a lf of res iden ts, up to CFAF 50,000 a t r a n s f e r. P aym en ts for inv i s ib les related to trade are pe rm i t ted f ree ly when the basic trade t ran sac t ion has been app roved or does not requ i re au thor iza t ion. T rans fe rs of income a c c ru ing to non- residents in the fo rm of p ro f i ts, d i v i d e n d s, and roya l t ies are also permitted. For tourist travel, res iden ts t r a v e l i ng to coun tr ies other than France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and other Operations Account coun t r ies of the French F ranc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 175,000 a t r ip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ld ren u n d er t e n) for any n um b er of trips a yea r; any fo re ign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 r em a i n i ng a f t er r e t u rn to B en in must be su r rende red. For bus iness t r a v e l, the re is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 400,000 a t r ip. The transfer of the entire net sa lary of a foreigner working in Ben in is pe rm i t ted upon p re sen ta t ion of the BENIN appropr ia te pay voucher, prov ided th at the t ran s fer takes place w i t h in th ree mon ths of the pay period. Travelers go ing to fo re ign countries may take out up to a maxi- mum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno te s, and bankno tes issued by other Operations Account coun t r ies. Res ident t rave le rs to other coun tr ies of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno te s, but if going to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mon e t a ry Un ion, they must dec la re to the cus toms the am o u nt taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Non r e s id ent t r av e l e rs may take out any unu t i l ized f o r e i gn b a n k n o t es and co ins up to the am o u nt declared by them on en t ry, sub ject to a d j u s tm e nt for amoun ts exchanged for CFA f r an cs or ob ta ined by exchange of fo r e ign cu r rency. Non re s ident t rave le rs may take out f r e e ly the e q u i v a l e nt of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- no tes, French b ankno t e s, and bankno tes issued by the Opera t ions Account countries; the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 in fo re ign b a n k n o t e s; and any amount in o ther fo re ign means of p a ym e nt ( t rave le rs checks, e tc .) established abroad in the ir n am e s. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expo r ts to Po r tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica are p roh ib i t ed. Expor ts to a ll fo re ign coun t r i es must be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized bank when va lued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Expor ts to all coun t r ies are f r ee of license, except those of gold and d iamond s, but requ ire an export app l ica t ion visaed by the Directorate of E x t e r n al Comme rce. The due da te for paymen ts for expo r ts to fo r e ign coun t r i es c a n n ot be la ter th an 180 days a f t er the a r r i v al of the commod i t ies at the ir des t ina- t i o n. The proceeds mu st be collected and, if the con- t r a ct is d e n om i n a t ed in a non -F ranc Area cu r rency, sold on the exchange m a rk e t, w i t h in two mon ths of the due da te. P r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on is requ i red for the ho ld ing, sale, impo r t, export, or t r ad ing of raw d iamonds and of p rec ious a nd s em ip r e c ious m a t e r i a l s; t h is a u t h o r i z a t i on is g ran ted by decree issued by the Counc il of M in is te rs ac t ing on the proposal of the M in i s t er in Charge of M ines a f t er a t e chn i c al comm i s s ion has given i ts op in ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om t ransac t ions in inv is ib les w i th France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and other Operations Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be r e t a in ed. A ll am o u n ts due f rom res iden ts of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun t r ies f rom fo re ign assets, must be collected and su r rende red. Res ident and nonresident travelers may b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coins (except gold co ins) of coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area; resident travelers must declare to the customs and w i t h in eight days of re tu rn su r render to 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 they bring in. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Benin; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign secu- rities, these control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or invest- ment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin 5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquida- tion of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin require prior authorization by the 4 Including those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fo re ign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 78 Minister of Commerce and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Benin has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchant- ing firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom spe- cial authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the M in is ter of Commerce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus- try, m in ing, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, du r ing a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product, and from certain other taxa t ion. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises undertaking to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the bene- fits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Plan D provides certain benefits for Beninese entre- preneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of Janua ry 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization gran ted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, impor t, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Commerce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con- taining a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by an Order of the M in is te r. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1976 January 1. Ordinance No. 76-3 of J anu a ry 9 extended the tar iff preferences granted to the o r ig inal EEC mem- ber states to the new EEC member states (Denma rk, I re land, and the Un i ted K ingdom ). January 26. Ord inance No. 76-5 gave the Societe Na t iona le d'Armement et de Peche (SONAPECHE) a monopoly over the importation of fresh, frozen, salted, and smoked fish, w i th retroactive effect from December 10, 1975. March 15. France aga in suspended its participation in the European common ma rg ins arrangement; the pa r i ty between the CFA f r anc and the French f ranc rema ined unchanged. June 28. Decree No. 76-34 gave the Societe Ben ino ise pour le Developpement des Ressources An ima les (SODERA) a monopoly over the impo r ta t ion of livestock. July 1. The West A f r i c an Clearing House forma l ly came in to operation. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0409256 g ram of fine gold per Bo l iv ian Peso. A cen tral rate has been established of $b 20 = US$1. The U.S. do l lar is the in t e rv en t ion cu r- rency, and Bolivia ava i ls itself of w ider m a rg in s. For opera t ional purposes, the exchange m a rk et is divided in to two sectors: the pub l ic sector and the pr i- vate sector. The Cen t ral Bank of Bo l iv ia operates in both sectors, buy ing fo re ign exchange f r om the Govern- men t, the off ic ial en terpr ises, i n c l u d i ng the Bo l iv i an M i n i ng Corporation ( COM I BO L ), and p r iva te export f irms, and selling fo re ign exchange w i t h o ut any restric- t ion to the Banco del Estado, the commerc ial b anks and exchange houses, the Gov e rnm ent and i ts o f f i c i al agen- cies, and — th rough the banks — to the pub l ic. The com- mercial banks and exchange houses purchase exchange acc ru ing to the p r iva te sector on account of cap i tal and inv is ib les, and they cover a ll fo re ign exchange r e q u i r e- men ts of the p r iva te sector. The exchange ra te of the Cen tral Bank on December 3 1, 1976 was $b 20.00 b u y- ing, and $b 20.02 se l l ing, per US$1. All sales of fo re ign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax, a 2 per m i ll stamp tax, and a 1 per m i ll b ank ing comm is- s ion. Accord ing ly, the e f fec t ive s e l l ing ra te of the com- mercial banks and exchange houses on the same da te was $b 20.40 per US$1. Bo l iv ia fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l ig a t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund A g r e em e n t, as f r om June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency There are no prescr ip t ion of cu r rency requ i remen ts. Settlements are u su a l ly made in U.S. dollars or other conver t ib le cu r renc ies. Paymen ts between Bo l iv ia and A r g e n t i n a, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U r u g u a y, and Venezue la may be made through accounts m a in t a in ed w i th each other by the cen tral banks. Counc il for P l a n n i ng and E conomy and to con t rol by the F in an c ing In s t i tu te. Most p r iva te sector im p o r ts are sub ject to an adv an ce deposit of 5 per cen t, 10 per cen t, or 25 per cent ad v a l o r em, wh ich must be lodged 120 days p r ior to the an t i c ip a t ed release f r om cus toms. Most pr iva te sector im p o r ts are sub ject to a cus toms su r ch a rge of 1 per cent ad v a lo r em. Most impo r ts also are sub ject to an ' 'add i t ional tax ," to an impo rt sur- cha rge of 3 per cen t, and to an 8 per cent tax on serv ices rende red. Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es may be made f r e e l y. (For p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds on fo r e ign inv e s tm en t s, however, see section on Cap i ta l, below.) Res iden ts of Bo l iv ian or f o r e i gn n a t i o n a l i ty m u st pay a t r a v el tax wh en l e a v i ng the c o u n t r y. The tax is $b 150 for air t r a v el to ne ighbo r- ing coun t r i e s, $b 60 for o v e r l a nd t ravel to such coun- t r i e s, $b 300 for a ir t r a v el to o ther L a t in Am e r i c an coun- t r i e s, and $b 400 for a ir t r av el to c o u n t r i es ou ts ide L a t in Am e r i c a. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts a re not n o rm a l ly sub ject to l i c e n s i n g, a l though ce r ta in expor ts may be p roh ib i t ed or res t r ic ted f r om t ime to t ime ow ing to domes t ic d em and and supp ly fac tors. A ll proceeds f r om expor ts of the pub l ic and p r iva te sectors mu st be sold to the C e n t r al B ank w i t h in 15 days of rece ip t, w i th the excep t ion of reasonab le amoun ts deducted for fo r e ign exchange exp end i tu r es u n d e r t a k en to e f fect the expor t. As regards m i n e r a l s, COM IBOL and the m ed ium - s i z ed m i n es expo rt t h e ir own p roduc t ion and the M i n i ng B a nk th at of the sm a ll m i n es of the p r iv a te sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange der ived f r om inv i s ib les may be r e t a in ed or sold in the exchange m a r k e t. Imports and Import Payments Capital A ll impor ts by pub l ic sector agencies r equ i re the p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the M in i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and Commerce; these agencies are not pe rm i t ted to impo rt commod i t i es also available in Bo l iv ia. P r iva te impo r ts of c e r t a in com- mod i t ies also r equ i re such p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n; these goods in c lude l ive ca t t le, v a r i o us f o o d s t u f f s, and petro- l eum and pe t ro leum produc ts. The impo rt of f u r n i t u r e, ga rmen t s, e lec tr ic ba t te r ies, de te rgen t s, and c e r t a in o ther loca l ly produced goods is p roh ib i ted. All o ther goods may be impor ted f ree ly. Exchange to pay for im p o r ts may be purchased freely f rom commercial banks. Most fo re ign credits, i n c l u d i ng o f f i c i a l ly gua ran teed supp l ie r s' credits, are subject to a u t h o r i z a t i on by the N a t i o n al Ou twa rd c ap i t al t r a n s f e rs by res iden ts or non res iden ts are free of con t rol and may be made f ree ly; inwa rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs also may be made f ree ly, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of bo r row ings f r om fo r e ign pub l ic sector agencies must be su r r end e r ed to the Cen t ral B a n k. All fo re ign credits, i n c l u d i ng supp l ie rs' credits, to gove rnment agencies and a u t o n om o us en t i t i e s, and c red i ts to the p r iva te sector w i th o f f ic ial gua ran tees, are subject to p r ior au thor iza- t ion by the Na t ional Counc il for P l a n n i ng and Economy and to control by the F inanc ing Institute. Most foreign loans mu st be registered w i th the N a t ion al Inve s tment I n s t i t u t e. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those invo lv ing petroleum and m in ing, are governed by the prov is ions of the Investment Law of December 16, 1971 (Decree-Law No. 10045). The law is adm in i s te red by the N a t i o n al Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the M in ing Code. Cer ta in fo re ign inve s tmen ts are considered subject to Decisions 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold By v i r tue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of Augu st 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domes t ic t r ad ing in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Cen t ral Bank to pu r- chase, for its use or for export in the fo rm of gold bars, the total na t ional produc t ion of gold. Supreme Decree No. 8635 of J anu a ry 9, 1969, w i thout a f f e c t i ng the existing powers of the Cen tral Bank, au thor ized the M in ing Bank to purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked fo rm, the production of gold, silver, and platinum. The M in ing Bank sells gold, s i lve r, and platinum on the domestic ma rket subject to conditions that it establishes jo in t ly w i th the Cen t ral Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its f u ll requ ire- ments of gold f rom the M i n i ng Bank. Coopera t ives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annua l ly to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the r em a ind er to the Central Bank. Residents may free ly purchase, r e t a in, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1976 January 23. Supreme Decree No. 13328 prohibited the import of rice. January 30. Supreme Decree No. 13341 prohibited the import of edible oils. February 14. Supreme Decree No. 13362 increased the additional tax on certain luxu ry items and made BOLIVIA general goods subject to an import surcharge of 3 per cent of the c . i .f. value; exempt f rom the latter were staples, med ic ine, industrial raw materials, aviation fuel, newspr in t, books, and spare parts for automobiles and trucks. February 14. Supreme Decree No. 13362 prohibited imports of automobiles for official or private use and impor ts of certain trucks. May 20. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Poland expired. June 9. Supreme Decree No. 13646 extended the exemptions and other benefits of the Investment Law to imports of materials, equipment, and tools for hotel construction. June 30. Supreme Decree No. 13707 reduced the import deposit of 25 per cent introduced by Decree-Law No. 12929 of October 3, 1975 to 10 per cent for pri- vate m anu f a c tu r ing enterprises impor t ing machinery and equ ipmen t, tools, spare parts, and raw materials, and for hotels and res tau ran ts impo r t ing construction materials and equipment. The import deposit for capital goods and inpu ts imported for the agr icu l tural sector (as speci- fied in Supreme Decree No. 13129 of December 4, 1975) was reduced to 5 per cent. The fo l low ing were exempted f rom import deposit requirements: books, newspapers, periodicals, and other commercially printed matter; equ ipmen t, machinery, tools, spare parts, and raw mate- rials for firms whose products were subject to price control; and machinery, equ ipmen t, tools, and spare parts for firms eligible for incentives under the Invest- ment Law. July 9. Supreme Decree No. 13741 regulated the pro- duc t ion, impo r ta t ion, and ma rke t ing of pharmaceutical and chemical products. July 20. Supreme Decree No. 13759 made imports of heavy-duty vehicles subject to prior license issued by the M in i s t ry of Transport and Commun ica t ions. August 27. Supreme Decree No. 13905 modified the import ta r i f f. December 23. Supreme Decree No. 14222 prohibited the impo r ta t ion of toys va lued at more than US$10. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange and Trade System Botswana's cu r rency is the Pu la. No par va lue or cen t ral ra te has been established. The o f f ic ial exchange ra te is P 1 = US$1.15.1 The exchange con t rol powers are vested in the M i n- i s ter of F in an ce and Deve lopment P l a n n i n g, who has delegated most of the a dm i n i s t r a t i on of exchange con- trol to the Bank of Botswana ( the cen tral b a n k ). The l a t t e r, in t u r n, has delegated c e r t a in powers to b anks appo in ted as au tho r i z ed dealers. Exchange control is applicable to t ransac t ions w i th a ll coun t r i e s. P a ym e n ts to or f r om re s iden ts of coun- t r ies ou t s ide Bo tswana mu st n o rm a l ly be made or received in a fo re ign cu r rency (a spec if ied fo re ign cur- rency in the case of export proceeds) or through a non- re s iden t -he ld pu la account in Bo t swana. There a re no b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts agreemen ts. P aym en ts to non r e s i- den ts for cu r r ent t r an s a c t ion s, wh i le subject to con t ro l, are not restricted, but app l ica t ions for ou tward trans- fe rs of c a p i t al are considered on t h e ir me r i t s. The r u l i n gs on a p p l i c a t i o ns for inw a rd and ou twa rd c a p i t al t r a n s f e rs may depend on whe ther the a p p l i c a nt is a t em p o r a r i ly res ident fo re ign n a t i o n a l, a non re s iden t, or a r e s id en t. A u t h o r i ty to app rove some types of c u r r e nt paymen ts is delegated to comme rc ial b a n ks up to established l im i t s; th is is t rue, for examp le, of the basic exchange a l low an ce for tou r i st t r av el ( the e q u i v a l e nt of P 2,000 in a c a l e n d ar y e ar for an a d u lt and P 800 for a c h i l d ). Trave lers m ay f r e e ly b r i ng in any am o u nt of domestic bankno tes and co in, and take out P 50 in such b a n k n o t es and co in. Bo t swana is a m emb er of a cus toms u n i on w i th Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaz i land, and the re are no import res tr ic t ions on goods o r ig in a t ing in any coun t ry of the cus toms u n i o n. Impo r ts f rom South A f r i ca do not r equ i re licenses and in c lude an u n k n o wn q u a n t i ty of goods o r i g i n a t i ng ou ts ide the cu s toms u n i o n. I n s o f ar as Botswana impo r ts goods direct f rom countries ou t- side the cus toms u n i o n, such im p o r ts a re l icensed by the Bo t swana Gov e rnm en t, prov ided that the goods a re in- tended for consump t ion in Botswana. Import licenses a re va l id for a ll coun t r ies and en t i t le the ho lder to buy the fo re ign exchange requ i red to m a ke the im p o rt pay- men t. Ce r ta in expor ts a re sub ject to l icen s ing, m a i n ly for revenue and s im i lar reasons. Fur thermore, goods of domestic or ig in may move f ree ly between Bo t swana and Rhodesia by v i r tue of a cus toms ag reement of 1956, provided that they are not in tended for re-expor t; im- ports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. i Changed to P 1 = US$1.2075 on April 30, 1977. 82 Changes during 1976 March 8. The M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce and Development P l a n n i ng in his budget speech stated th a t, wh i le ex- change con t rol was sho r t ly to be extended to the Rand M o n e t a ry A rea, there was no i n t e n t i on to use exchange con t ro ls as a ma jor i n s t r um e nt of econom ic policy. Foreign exchange wou ld con t inue to be readily avail- ab le for the p a ym e nt of impo r ted goods and services, w h i le generous fo re ign cu r r en cy a l lowances wou ld be g ran ted for business and ho l iday travel and for personal r em i t t a n c e s. August 13. The Exchange Con t rol Regu la t ion s, 1976 (S t a tu to ry In s t rum ent No. 110) of August 10 were gaze t ted. They came i n to e f fect on Augu st 23. The Ex- change Con t rol R e g u l a t i o n s, 1965 (L eg al No t ice No. 63 of 1965) were revoked. The new r e g u l a t i o ns made no d i s t i n c t i on be tween res iden ts of the R a nd Mone ta ry A rea and r e s id en ts of o ther coun t r i es ou t s ide Bo tswana, and regarded the South A f r i c an rand as a fo re ign cur- rency. Prev ious ly, t ransac t ions w i th residents of the R a nd M o n e t a ry A rea were not sub ject to exchange con- t r o l. August 13. S ta tu to ry I n s t r um e nt No. 1 11 of August 13 was gaze t ted, by wh ich the M i n i s t er of F inance and D e v e l o pm e nt P l a n n i ng de lega ted a ll h is powers u n d er the Exchange Control Regu la t ions, 1976 to the Bank of Bo t sw an a, w i th the excep t ion of h is powers u n d er the R e g u l a t i o ns spec if ied in a Schedu le. August 13. S t a tu to ry I n s t r um e nt No. 1 12 of August 13 was gazetted, by wh ich the M in i s ter of Finance and Deve lopment P l a n n i ng exemp ted f rom the p rov i s ions of R e g u l a t i on 3 1 ( 3) the l e n d i ng of any money or securi- ties by any person resident in Botswana to any office or b r a n ch in Bo t swana of any b a nk or b u i l d i ng society w h i ch is by any means con t ro l l ed, whe ther d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly, by persons resident outside Botswana. August 13. S t a tu to ry I n s t r um e nt No. 113 of Augu st 13 was gaze t ted, by wh i ch the M i n i s t er of F inance and Deve lopment P l a n n i ng ordered t h at the p rov is ions of R e g u l a t i o ns 3, 4, and 5 wou ld not app ly in respect of gold co ins and m a n u f a c t u r ed gold. (A legal tender gold coin w i th a f a ce v a l ue of P 150 c ame i n to c i r cu l a- t ion on Feb rua ry 16, 1977.) August 13. S t a tu to ry I n s t r um e nt No. 114 of Au- gust 13 (Ex emp t ion for Ba i lees) was gaze t ted, by wh ich the M in i s t er of F inance and Development P lann ing ex- emp ted f r om the ob l iga t ion imposed u n d er R egu l a t ion 5 any b a n k er to the e x t e nt t h at he wou ld not be r equ i r ed to n o t i fy the B ank of Bo tswana in any case where he was s a t i s f i ed t h at the person for whom or by whose order any gold or specified c u r r e n cy in the f o rm of notes was held was not requ i red, by v i r tue of Regu la- t ion 4, to o f f er or cause to be o f fe red t h at gold or spe- c i f ied cu r r en cy for sale to an au tho r ized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 13. S ta tu to ry I n s t r um e nt No. 1 15 of Augu st 13 (Exemp t ion for Temporary V is i to rs) was gazetted, by wh ich the M i n i s t er of F inance and Deve lopment P l ann ing exempted f r om the provisions of Regu la t ion 4 a ll persons in Bo tswana who are not re s ident in Botswana. August 23. Bo tswana issued its own cu r r en cy, the pula, and w i thd rew f rom the R and Mone tary Area. The South A f r i c an r and ceased to be legal tender and became a foreign currency. For a t r an s i t ion al conver- sion period u n t il November 30, r a nd and p u la c i r cu l a t ed concurren t ly and a fixed re la t ionsh ip of P 1 = R 1 was gua ran teed. Du r ing th is per iod, the exchange rate was ma in ta ined at P 1 = US$1.15. November 12. The Exchange Con t rol ( P a ym e n t s) Order, 1976 of November 4 was gazetted. It specified the t r a n s f e rs and p a ym e n ts t h at were exempt f r om Reg- u la t ion 7 and, for the app l ica t ion of R egu l a t ion 2 1, pre- scribed th at p a ym e nt for expo r ts to a ll coun t r i es had to be received either in any specified currency or in pu la f rom an account w i th an au tho r ized dea ler in Bo t sw ana of a person res ident ou ts ide Bo tswana. BOTSWANA November 12. The Exchange Con t rol ( Im p o rt and Expo r t) Order, 1976 of November 4 was gazetted. It prov ided for ce r ta in exemp t ions f r om R egu l a t ion 22 ( i n- c l u d i ng the impo rt of any notes and coin that are legal t end er in Bo t sw an a) and R e g u l a t i on 23 ( i n c l u d i ng the export by any traveler, on his person or in his baggage, of up to P 50 in notes and co in that are legal t end er in Botswana and up to P 200 in notes and coin that are or have at any t ime been legal tender in any coun t ry ou t- side Botswana; and the export by any trave ler not resi- d e nt in Bo tswana of any t rave le rs check or le t ter of credit imported by that t r av e l e r ). November 12. The Exchange Con t rol (B ranches and Residence) Order, 1976 of November 4 was gazetted. Bus iness by b ranches in Bo tswana was deemed to be business by a person resident in Botswana, and the t e rm b ranch of a bus iness was deemed to in- c lude a reference to the head office of that business. December 1. The gua ran teed r e l a t i o n s h ip of P 1 — R 1 ceased to be in effect. The pu la was pegged to the U.S. do l l a r. The o f f i c i al exchange ra te c o n t i n u ed to be P 1 = US$1.15. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System On Ju ly 14, 1948, a par va lue for the B r a z i l i an Cruze iro was established by Braz il w i th the Fund. However, exchange t r an s a c t ions no longer t ake place at rates based on that par v a lu e. Since Augu st 1968 Brazil has followed a f lex ib le exchange rate policy. Exchange t ran sac t ions are ca r r ied out by the C en t r al Bank, the B ank of B raz i l, the au tho r ized b a n k s, and the exchange houses. The Cen t ral Bank operates in fo re ign exchange in Belo Hor izon te, Cu r i t ib a, Porto Alegre, Rec i fe, Rio de Jane i ro, Salvador, and Sao Pau lo, and the Bank of B raz il unde r takes exchange t r an s a c t ions in the n ame of the Cen t ral Bank in other pa r ts of the coun t ry. The exchange houses deal on ly in bankno tes and t rave le rs checks in a "m anu al ma rke t ." U n i f o rm i ty between the rates quoted by the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and the e f fec t ive rates of the au tho r ized banks is ensured by the practice of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies of s tand ing ready to purchase exchange f r om the b a n ks and to sell it to the b a n ks on an ad equ a te basis, for approved t r an s a c t ion s; such purchases and sales are made at the o f f ic ial rate. On December 3 1, 1976, the b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes quoted by the mone- t a ry au tho r i t ies to the pub l ic were Cr$12 .275 and Cr$ 12.345, respec t ive ly, per US $ 1; those quo ted by the au tho r ized banks for t r an s a c t ions o ther th an in b ankno t es or t rave le rs checks were the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). The same exchange ra tes are app l icab le to "agreement do l lars" used for settle- men ts w i th b i la te ral ag reement coun t r ies. Rates for other cu r renc ies are based on the U.S. do l lar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in New York and Europe. W i th specified excep t ions, fo re ign exchange t ransac t ions are subject to brokerage fees, ca lcu la ted on a s l id ing scale, wh ich for the ra tes listed above resu lt in e f fec t ive rates w i t h in 1 per cent on e i ther side of the rates of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s. On the b u y i ng s ide, other e f fec t ive rates result f rom t he f o l l ow i ng a r rangemen t s: ( 1) special regu la t ions app ly to coffee expor ts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); (2) a 10 per cent con t r ibu t ion ("con t r ibu t ion quota" or quota de contribucdo) is levied on proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and products except for those in respect of exports of sweetened cocoa powder con ta in ing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw m a t e r i a l, for wh ich the c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta is 5 per cent; (3) a con t r ibu t ion quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f r om expo r ts of rawhides of wild an ima l s, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds f r om tanned or processed h ides of w i ld a n im a l s; and (4) a con t r ibu t ion quo ta of 40 per cent is app l ied to proceeds f r om export of qu a r tz chips.1 1 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1977 the con t r ibu t ion quo ta for prod- uc ts of second or th i rd q u a l i ty was changed to 20 per cent. 84 On the s e l l i ng side, a d i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve ra te arises f r om the provision of the Foreign Inve s tment Law (see sec t ion on P a ym e n ts for Inv i s ib l e s, b e l ow ), wh i ch spec if ies t h at the sum of p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds e f f e c t iv e ly rem i t ted to persons and comp an i es re s ident abroad is sub ject to a supp l em en t a ry income tax when the average of a c t u al r em i t t a n c es in any th ree -year period is in ex- cess of 12 per c ent a year of reg is te red c ap i t al and r e i n v e s tm e n t. The Bank of B r a z i l, a c t ing on its own behalf or on b eh a lf of the C e n t r al B a n k, ca r r ies out a con s ide rab le p ropo r t ion of a ll exchange t r a n s a c t i o n s. The f o l l ow i ng a r r a n g em e n ts assu re the B a nk of B raz il of a la rge pro- po r t ion of the c o u n t r y 's f o r e i gn exchange rece ip t s: ( 1) Pe trobras s u r r e n d e rs to the B a nk i ts e n t i re fo re ign ex- change proceeds f r om c e r t a in expor ts of pe t ro leum. ( 2) Proceeds f r om expor ts of i ron ore by the Vale do R io Doce Comp any also a re su r rende red to the B ank of B raz i l. (3) A ll o ther pub l ic sector agenc ies ca r ry out a ll of t h e ir exchange o p e r a t i o ns t h r o u gh the Bank of B r a z i l. The B ank of B r a z il se l ls f o r e i gn exchange for the requ i remen ts of the Gove rnment at the exchange rate p r e v a i l i ng on the da te the t r a n s a c t i on is made. L ike the o ther comm e r c i al b a n ks the Bank of B raz il also sells f o r e i gn exchange for paymen ts in respect of a large n um b er of impo r t s, i n c l u d i ng c rude o il and pe t ro leum p r o d u c t s, whea t, n ew s p r i n t, f e r t i l i z e r s, and the r equ i r e- m e n ts of the Va le do Rio Doce C om p a n y. The Cen- t r al B a nk h and l es a ll exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns in b i l a t e r al cu r renc ies. The au tho r ized banks are r equ i r ed to s u r r e n d er to the C en t r al B a nk or to the B ank of B raz il ( o p e r a t i ng for the account of the C en t r al B a n k ), at the close of each bu s ine ss day, any fo r e ign exchange in excess of a net pos i t ion of US$25,000 for each branch. The Cen- t r al B a nk and the B a nk of B r a z i l, ope ra t ing for the account of the Cen t ral B a n k, s u p p ly fo r e ign exchange to au tho r i z ed b anks in am o u n ts not exceed ing those needed to e l im i n a te an oversold pos i t ion of up to US$500,000 and l im i t ed to 90 per cent of the exchange sold the p rev ious day by the bank concerned to its cus tome rs; in c lud ed in t h is l im it is the ir "m anu al ma rke t" pos i t ion (b ankno t es and t rave le rs checks ). The banks are permitted to sell fo re ign exchange to each o the r, p rov ided t h at they a re s i tua ted in the same t r a d i ng cen te r; t r a n s f e rs between b ranches of the same b a nk in d i f f e r e nt t r a d i ng centers a re also allowed, sub- ject to ce r ta in conditions. In add i t ion, exchange t ran- sac t ions a re p e rm i t t ed be tween b anks in R io de Jane i ro and b a n ks in Sao Pau lo; such t r an s a c t ions may be car- ried out e i ther by cable on a spot basis or on a fo rw a rd basis and must be executed w i t h in 2 wo rk ing days for spot t r a n s a c t i o ns or not la ter than a f t er 180 days for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fo rwa rd t r a n s a c t i o n s. Au tho r i z ed banks a re also per- m i t t ed to engage in a r b i t r a ge among themse lves when o p e r a t i ng in the same t r a d i ng c en t er or be tween estab- l i s hm e n ts in Rio de J an e i ro and Sao Pau lo. The "man- ual ma rke t" is conduc ted m a in ly by exchange houses, wh i ch a re not p e rm i t t ed to m a i n t a in a sold po s i t ion and a re not e n t i t l ed to o b t a in ex ch ange cover f r om the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s. Administration of Control The N a t ion al Mone ta ry Counc i l, cha ired by the M i n i s t er of F in an c e, is re spon s ib le for the f o rm u l a t i on of ov e r a ll f o r e i gn exchange policy. In acco rdance w i th the gu ide l ines established by the Counc i l, and under the supe rv i s ion of the D i rec tor in charge of Foreign Exchange O p e r a t i o ns of the C e n t r al B a n k, exchange control is opera ted by the C e n t r al Bank 's Exchange O p e r a t i o ns D e p a r tm e nt ( G E C A M) a nd Depa r tment f or the Con t rol and R e g i s t r a t i on of Fo re ign C a p i t al ( F iRCE ); the l a t t er processes the r eg i s t r a t ion of fo re ign cap i tal for the purpose of its repa t r ia t ion and of the rem i t tance of income t h e r e f r om; it also exercises app rov al a u t h o r i ty over the te rms of fo r e ign f i n a n c i ng of im p o r ts for per iods in excess of 360 days. Cer ta in bo r row ing abroad r equ i r es the p r ior app rov al of the i n t e rm i n i s t e r i al For- eign Loans Comm i s s ion ( C E M P E X ). The N a t ion al Counc il of Foreign Trade ( C O N C E X ), cha ired by the M i n i s t er of I n d u s t ry and Comme rce and es tab l ished w i t h in h is M i n i s t r y, f o rm u l a t es f o r e i gn t rade policy. The M i n i s t ry of Foreign A f f a i rs is the Counc i l's execu t ive o rgan for d e a l i ng w i th fo r e ign coun t r ies, wh i le the Fore ign Trade D e p a r tm e nt of the Bank of B r a z il ( CA C EX) im p l em e n ts the Council's decisions w i t h in Brazil. CACEX issues export and impo rt certificates (guias de exporta^ao and gnias de importa^do), and ve r i f ies price q u o t a t i o n s, we igh ts, measu res, c lass i f ica- tions, and types in impo rt operations. CACEX also is in charge of app rov ing im p o rt f i n a n c i ng w i th te rms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regu la ted by the B r a z i l i an Coffee I n s t i t u te ( I B C ), wh i ch is an a u t o n om o us body respon- sible to the M i n i s t er of I n d u s t ry and Commerce and operates w i t h in the gene ral gu id e l in es of the N a t i o n al Mone ta ry C ou n c i l. The Customs Policy Coun c il ( C P A ), es tab l ished w i th in the M in i s t ry of F in an c e, is respons ib le for f o rm u- la t ing guidelines for t a r i ff policy, subject to the legal powers of the N a t i o n al M o n e t a ry Counc il and CONCEX. The CPA also decides on changes in cus toms du t ies under the prov is ions of ex is t ing legislation. The impo rt policy of the pub l ic sector is coo rd ina ted by the B r a z i l i an Foreign Trade Comm i t t ee ( C B I ). Prescription of Currency P re sc r ip t ion of cu r rency is in p r i n c i p le re la ted to the coun try of origin of imports or the coun t ry of final de s t ina t ion of exports, un less o therw ise spec i f ica l ly prescribed or au tho r i z ed. Se t t lemen ts w i th p aym en ts BRAZIL ag reement coun tr ies are made in clearing dollars through the r e l ev ant agreement accoun t. Purchases or sales of exchange re la t ing to t r an s a c t ions of any k ind under b i la te ral paymen ts ag reemen ts must be agreed in U.S. dollars; such transac t ions are exempt f rom the con- t r a c t i ng of spec i f ic su r r end er or cover w i th the Cen tral B a n k. B i l a t e r al accoun ts a re m a i n t a i n ed w i th Bu lgar ia, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Israel, Po land, R om a n i a, and Yugos lav ia. Reciprocal credit ag reemen ts p rov id ing for se t t lemen ts th rough accoun ts denom ina ted in U.S. dollars are in force w i th A rgen t ina, B o l i v i a, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, the Dom in ican Republic, E cu ado r, Mexico, P e ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezue la. Settle- men ts w i th countries w i th which Braz il has no paymen ts ag reemen ts or special p aym en ts a r r ang em en ts are made in U.S. do l la rs or o ther conve r t ib le cu r renc ies. How- ever, proceeds f r om expo r ts to La t in Ame r ican member coun t r ies of the In te r -Ame r ican Development Bank, o ther t h an A r g e n t i n a, Mex ico, and Venezue la, may be received in the cu r rency of the im p o r t i ng coun t ry. Imports and Import Payments Special a r r a n g em e n ts described below app ly to impo r ts of petroleum and petroleum products. The impo rt of rec rea t ional boats of a v a lue of over US$3,500 and of commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in or sh ipped f r om Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. In add i t ion, CACEX has sus- pended the issuance of im p o rt licenses of a large n um b er of "supe r f luous" impo r t s. Unless as an excep t ion, the p r ior au tho r i z a t ion of the President is obtained, there is also a p roh ib i t ion on the d i rect im p o rt of con sumer goods ( a nd on the pu rchase on the domes t ic m a rk et of any impo r t ed con sumer goods) by the pub l ic and semi- pub l ic sector (d i rect organs of the G o v e r nm e n t, au tono- mous agencies, pub l ic en te rp r ises, and compan ies w i th m ixed pub l ic and p r iv a te p a r t i c i p a t i o n ). Fu r the rmo re, impor ts and the leasing or purchase in the domestic ma rket by m i n i s t r i es or agencies con t ro l led by the Fed- e ral G o v e r nm e nt of m a ch in e ry, e q u i pm e n t, vehicles, and spare parts of fore ign or ig in for wh ich satisfactory dome s t ic equ iv a l en ts (sitnilares nationals) are ava i lab le a re p r o h i b i t e d, except und er specified c o n d i t i o n s. A ll other impor ts may be grouped in to the fo l low ing two broad categories: (1) impo r ts t h at a re f ree of any r e q u i r em e nt to secure p r ior a dm i n i s t r a t i ve documen ta- t i o n, e.g., samp les w i thout commercial va lue and cer ta in e d u c a t i o n al m a t e r i a l; and (2) impo r ts that r equ i re an im p o rt ce r t i f ica te. The bulk of impo r ts f a l ls i n to the second ca tegory. The impo rt cer t if ica te is issued sub ject to the presen ta t ion of da ta on the fore ign price of the commod i ty and other re levant i n f o rm a t i on CACEX may r equ i r e. Impo rt cer t if ica tes are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the va lue of impo rt cer t if ica tes; as a r u l e, they are va l id for 90 or 180 days, d ep end ing on the commod i ty (60 days for goods subject to price c o n t r o l s ). For a n um b er of specified impo r ts in the second ca tegory, the impo rt ce r t i f ica te may be ob ta ined 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL a f ter the disembarkation of the commodity in Brazil, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second category the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,2 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instru- ments, machinery, and equipment. Most commodities subject to an import certificate are exempt f rom this requirement when the value of the import transaction does not exceed US$2,000. All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX programs of their an t ic i- pated import operations. The M in is ter of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the direc- tives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to comm i tmen ts under LAFTA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where ( 1) imports are for speculative stock bu i ld ing purposes; (2) imports are causing or threaten to cause serious damage to the national economy; or (3) impor ts or ig ina te in or are shipped from countries that in any way impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported in to the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota. The transfer of fore ign goods imported into the Manaus free zone to other parts of Brazil for any reason is prohibited. With certain exceptions,3 all imports are subject to a compulsory advance deposit requirement equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the imports. The deposits must be lodged before import certificates are collected and are held without interest by the Central Bank for a period of 360 days. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days ~ Under ins truc t ions issued by the Economic Development Council, fede ral ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are requ ired to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment pro- gram incorpora t ing the ir anticipated import requ iremen ts. 3 Petroleum, fertilizers, disinfectants, insecticides, herbicides, breeding stock, seeds, antibiotics and other pha rmaceu t ical products, whea t, coal, printing paper, certain books, and a i rc ra ft and helicopter par ts. The following import categories are also exemp t: equ ipment and com- ponents without similares nacionais for petroleum prospecting and production, and for certain approved scientific and research p rog ram s, imports through or into the Manaus f r ee zone, subject to cer ta in conditions; imports under drawback a r rangemen ts; impor ts w i th fo r- eign financing of more than five years of mach inery and equipment without similares nacionais for the importer's own use or in the fo rm of fore ign capital investment registered w i th FIRCE; and goods impor ted f rom LAFTA countries under special concessions. Also exempt are temporary imports of equ ipmen t; components and parts for mainte- nance, repair or reconditioning purposes; Brazilian goods r e tu rn ing to the coun try; goods impor ted under export p rog rams app roved by the Commission on Fiscal Incentives for Special Export Programs (BEF IEX ); imports representing up to 10 per cent of the value of any increase in a company's exports over the previous yea r; impor ts of new goods, intermediate p roduc ts, and raw materials intended for the importer's own use and directly related to m anu f a c tu r e s; and impor ts already exempted f rom customs d u ty and the IPI tax under Decree- Law No. 1189 of September 24, 1971. 86 f rom the date of shipment, without any test for similares nacionais, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports of capital goods, intermediate products, raw materials, and other goods and merchandise regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be registered with the Central Bank. Financial terms in respect of external financing for imports of more than one year must be submitted for approval to the Central Bank, which w i ll evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy, before a request can be made for registration w i th FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ruling by CACEX that similares nacionais do not exist and that Brazilian firms are unab le to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and of interest thereon, may only be made upon presentation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank approv ing the credit terms. Pr ior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Fur thermore, installments of the financed amount must be distributed to ensure that amo r t iza t ion of the debt is scheduled in proportion to the terms of the financing operation. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle d ra f ts, at sight or on ma tu r i ty, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on ma tu r i ty of the d r a f t; this may take place 2 wo rk ing days in advance of the ma tu r i ty date if the exchange t rans fer is pro- cessed by telegram or telex, or 10 work ing days in advance if processed by a i rma il or check. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, w i th some exceptions, to the con- t r a c t ing of fo rwa rd exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Deposits are payable to the Central Bank on the work ing day following the exchange operation and are released on the date of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract, up to a m a x im um period of 180 days.4 Letters of credit must be opened w i th in 5 wo rk ing days f rom the date of the exchange con trac t. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened w i thout prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ord inar i ly require a guaran tee deposit for their own protection for fo rwa rd exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit s tand ing of the customer. When the contracts are l iqu ida ted, guaran tee deposits may be used for payment of the fore ign exchange concerned. In certain cases, 4 Imports exempt f r om the deposit r e q u i r em e nt include p r in t ing paper for newspapers, magazines, and books, fe r t i l ize rs, cer ta in ag r icu l tu ral chemicals and related raw ma ter ia ls for the ir p rodu c t ion, and goods impo r ted in to the Manaus f r ee zone. Also exempt were imports au thor ized under drawback opera t ions and impo r ts of seeds and f r u i ts for p lan t ing prov ided they we re a lready exempt f r om the deposit requ i rement applied to the issuance of impo rt licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in terest at about 0.5 per cent a mon th is charged on the po r t ion of the fo rw a rd con t ract not covered by a deposit. Advance paymen ts in amoun ts up to US$300 for imports of books may be made w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion. Special procedures are applicable to ce r ta in impo r ts of petroleum and p e t ro l eum products and of whea t. For petroleum and specified pe t ro leum by-products, Petro- bras concludes for each impo rt t ran sac t ion an ind i- v idual fo re ign exchange con tract at the se l l ing ra te p reva i l ing on the day of the closing of the exchange contract. At the same t ime, the Bank of B r a z il con- cludes a fo re ign exchange con tract w i th the Cen t ral Bank, to cover i ts position for an amount e q u i v a l e nt to the va lue of the i n d i v i d u al con tract at the exchange rate at which the Cen t ral Bank sells fo r e ign exchange to commerc ial bank s. In e s t ab l i sh ing the s e l l i ng ra te to be applied to the l i q u i d a t i on of the con t rac t, the se l l ing ra te used is th at wh i ch p reva i led 10 days p r ior to the da te of the latest f i x i ng of the domes t ic price of pe tro leum by the N a t i o n al Pe t ro leum C o u n c il (N P C ). The d i f fe rence, if any, be tween the ra te of the con t ract conc luded be tween Petrobras and the B ank of B r a z il and the ra te used at the l i q u i d a t i on of t h at exchange con tract is bo rne by the NPC. Paymen ts by Pe t rob ras aga inst such con t rac ts a re made in the f o l l ow i ng m ann e r: for collections, 100 per cent upon the l i q u i d a t i on of the con tract cove r ing the im p o r t a t i o n, and for le t ters of c red i t, 10 per cent wh en the le t ter of c red it is issued and 90 per cent upon the l i q u i d a t i on of the con t rac t. For some commod i t i e s, the a p p l i c a t i on of im p o rt duties may be affec ted by the ex is tence of similares nacionais or the e s tab l i shment of a m i n i m um im p o rt price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a re fe rence pr ice. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for c u r r e nt inv i s ib l es re la ted to i n c ome f rom fo re ign c ap i t a l, roy a l t i e s, and techn ical ass is tance are governed by the p rov i s ions of the Fore ign Inves t- ment Law. In add i t ion to ce r ta in re s t r ic t ions on r em i t- tances s t i p u l a t ed in th at law, l im i ts a re p laced, by v i r t ue of N o rm a t i ve Act No. 15 of the N a t i o n al I n s t i t u te of I n d u s t r i al P rope r ty of Sep tember 1 1, 1975, on rem i t- tances of a ll r o y a l t i es and t e c h n i c al a s s i s tance fees (see b e l ow ). Sub ject to c e r t a in c o n d i t i o ns au tho r i z ed b a n ks may sell fo r e ign exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$300 a m o n th for pe r sonal r em i t t a n c es ab road. The sale of fo re ign exchange for t ravel ab road is s u b j e ct to special r e g u l a t i o ns as described be low. P aym en ts for other cu r r ent i n v i s i b l es r equ i re the app rov al of G E CAM or F IRCE, wh i ch au tho r i ze r em i t t an c es f r e e l y, sub ject to the p r e s en t a t ion of s u p p o r t i ng do cum en ts as ev idence that a bona f ide c u r r e nt t r a n s a c t i on is invo lv ed. Sales of fo r e ign exchange to meet pe r sonal expenses connec ted w i th t ravel abroad a re p e rm i t t ed up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip, w i t h o ut the p r ior app roval of the Cen t ral B a n k, on the f o l l ow i ng t e rm s: for ne igh- bo r ing coun t r i es ( 1) in b a n k n o t es up to US$100, and BRAZIL (2) in p aym ent orders for the r em a ind e r; and for other coun t r ies ( 1) in bankno tes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the rema inde r. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be subm i t ted to the Central B ank, wh ich cons iders each case on its me r i t s; amoun ts in excess of US$1,000, when au thor ized, may be taken up in the fo rm of payment orders on ly. Foreign res iden ts in t r an s it in Braz il are perm i t ted to purchase f o r e i gn cu r rency up to the equ iva lent of the am o u nt they sold d u r i ng the period of the ir stay in B raz i l; however, p u r- chases in excess of 30 per cent of the am o u nt prev ious ly sold requ i re the app roval of the Cen t ral B ank. Each pu rchase t ransac t ion is reg is tered, and the records of these ope ra t ions, wh ich mu st con t a in the names of c l ien t s, are subm i t ted da i ly to the Cen t ral Bank. The i s suance of B r a z i l i an passports, the g r a n t i ng of po l ice ex it v isas in these passports, and the issuance of police ex it v isas to fo re igne rs p e rm a n e n t ly res ident in Braz il are sub ject to a deposit r equ i r em ent of Cr$12 ,000 .r> The depos it is held in the Bank of B r a z il for one year w i t h o ut in te rest and w i t h o ut mon e t a ry co r rec t ion. Per- sons w i s h i ng to purchase fo r e ign exchange for travel mu st first p roduce ev idence of p a ym e nt of the deposit r e q u i r em e nt in respect of passports and ex it visas.0 Ou twa rd rem i t tances in respect of fore ign inves tment in B r a z i l i an s e cu r i t i es a re governed by special regu la- t ions (see b e l ow ). O therw ise, rem i t tances abroad of f o r e i gn cap i ta l, income f r om fo r e ign direct inves tmen ts and r e i n v e s tm e n t s, and r em i t t an c es in respect of roya l- t ies and t e chn i c al ass is tance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of Feb rua ry 17, 1965 wh ich con t a ins the r e g u l a t i o ns im p l em e n t i ng the Foreign I n v e s tm e nt Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1, as amended by Law No. 4390 ). R em i t t a n c es a re a l lowed o n ly when the fo r e ign cap i tal conce rned, i n c l u d i ng r e i n v e s tm e n t s, and the con t rac ts f or pa ten ts a nd t r a d em a r k s, a nd f or t e c h n i c a l, s c i e n t i f i c, and a dm i n i s t r a t i ve ass is tance, are registered at FIRCE in acco rdance w i th the established ru les (see section on C a p i t a l, b e l ow ). The reg is t ra t ion of con trac ts or deeds for techn ical ass is tance or the use of pa ten ts or t r a d em a r ks is sub ject to the f u r n i s h i ng of proof that the d o c um e nt has been approved by the N a t i o n al I n s t i- tu te of I n d u s t r i al P rope r ty and comp l ies w i th i ts N o rm a t i ve Act No. 15 of September 1 1, 1975. R em i t- tances are n o rm a l ly au tho r ized in the cu r rency of r eg i s t r a t ion. R em i t t a n c es of in te re st on loans and c red i ts and of re la ted amo r t i z a t ion p aym en ts are per- m i t t ed f r e e ly in accordance w i th the te rms s t ipu la ted in the respec t ive con t ract and recorded in the ce r t i f ica te of reg i s t ra t ion. A progressive supp lemen ta ry income tax is levied on r em i t t a n c es to persons and comp an i es res ident abroad of e a r n i n gs on fo r e ign cap i tal (o ther than capital invested •" Inc rea sed to Cr$16,000 w i th e f fect f rom F eb ru a ry 17, 1977. 0 E x em pt f r om the depos it r e q u i r em e nt a re s tuden ts, teachers, a r t is ts, a th le te s, p r ies ts and n u n s, techn ic ians and specialists whose travel ab road is in the pub l ic in te re s t, and expo r te rs. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For registered portfolio capital, the sup- plementary income tax is levied if remittances of divi- dends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered investment. For fore ign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are l im i ted to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the fore ign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Braz il belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Rem i t- tances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remunera t ion for such services exceeds specified percentages, rang ing f rom 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts f rom the sale or manu fac tu re of given products for which such payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those estab- lished in Brazil's taxation laws for de te rm in ing the max imum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and fo re ign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of l icens ing requ i remen ts but requ i re an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure com- pliance w i th the requ iremen ts of exchange and trade regu la t ions. Some exports are f ree of con tro ls, but exports of many commod i t ies requ ire p r ior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are pro- hibited or suspended, inc lud ing cer ta in p r ima ry products and raw materials required for domestic consump t ion, and exports of certain other commodities are cond i t ional on prior domestic sales. Exports requ i r ing approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or pay- able in inconve r t ib le currenc ies, exports w i thout exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requ i r ing p r ior au thor iza- tion by government agencies. Exports of certain com- modities, inc lud ing beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to au thor iza t ion by the IBC. The IBC does not g rant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m i n im um registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f .o .b .) fixed f rom time to t ime by the IBC. The m i n im um registration price is fixed separately for the various types of coffee. Export- ers of coffee are required to surrender, w i thout com- pen sa t ion, a portion of their proceeds in the fo rm of a contribution quota which may also vary according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds f rom the con tr ibu t ion quota are t rans fe r red to the Coffee Defense 88 Fund. The con t r ibu t ion quo tas are set f r om t ime to t ime by the IBC and are fixed in terms of fo re ign cu r- rency; on December 31, 1976 they were US$80 a bag for green coffee, ground or roasted coffee, and decaf- fe ina ted green coffee, and US$1.50 a pound for spray- dried and f reeze -d r ied soluble coffee. Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, a f t er deduc t ion of the con t r ibu t ion quo tas, at the p reva i l ing off ic ial ma rket rate of exchange. Thus, the exchange ra te for exports of coffee depends on ( 1) the amount of the con t r ibu t ion quo ta, (2) the ac tual price received ( f .o .b. Braz i l, in U.S. dollars a p o u n d ), and (3) the o f f ic ial ma rket ra te of exchange. On December 31, 1976, the m i n im um registration prices were US$1.90 a pound for green co f fee and US$2 .10 a pound for deca f fe ina ted green coffee. The co r respond ing c ru z e i ro paymen ts a bag, a f t er deduction of the con tr ibu t ion quo ta, were Cr$2,096.57 for green coffee and Cr$2,420.63 for deca f fe ina ted green coffee. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds f rom coffee exports on sales at the m in imum registration price were Cr$8.359 per US$1 for green coffee and Cr$8.732 per US$1 for d e c a f f e in a t ed green coffee. The exchange rate for coffee exports is higher to the extent that sales are made in excess of the m in imum reg is tra t ion price. Proceeds of expor ts of spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee are also subject to a con t r ibu t ion quo ta. On December 31, 1976, the m in i- mum reg is t ra t ion price for spray-dr ied s o l u b le co f fee was US$5 to US$6 a pound and for freeze-dried soluble coffee US$7.50 to US$8.50 a pound. The con tr ibu t ion quota on both types of coffee was US$1.50 a pound. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds f rom exports of spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee on sales at the m i n im um reg is tra t ion price were Cr$8.592 to Cr$9.206 and Cr$9.820 to Cr$10.109, respectively, per US$1. The proceeds f rom all other exports are also sold at f ree ly negotiated exchange rates, w i th in the limits of the o f f ic ial marke t ,7 but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to su r render w i thout com- pensa t ion 10 per cent of the ir exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equ iva lent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and p lan ta t ion improvement for cocoa. Fu r the rmo re, a con t r ibu t ion quo ta of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f r om exports of unprocessed hides of wild an ima ls, 5 per cent on export proceeds f rom tanned or processed hides of w i ld an ima ls, and 40 per cent on export proceeds f rom quar tz chips. A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, p r inc ipa l ly of m anu f a c tu r ed commodities. These incen- tives include exemp t ions f r om ind i rect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption f rom tax l i ab i l i ty. Var ious lines of credit for exporters, some at 7 E f fec t ive J anu a ry 1, 1977 export exchange contracts could be liqui- dated only w i th the prior receipt of fo r e ign exchange through an account m a in t a in ed abroad by an au thor ized bank (Central Bank Resolution No. 391). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution p re fe ren t ial ra tes of in te res t, are provided by the Bank of B raz il and the comme rc ial b ank s. These f i n a n c i ng f a c i l i t i es i n c l u de bo th expo rt f i n a n c i ng and the f i n a n c i ng of p r o d u c t i on and w a r e h o u s i ng for expo r t, p a r t i c u l a r ly for m a n u f a c t u r e s. In a d d i t i o n, assistance is p rov ided to expor ters in the f ie ld of expo rt c r ed it i n s u r a n ce and by way of gua ran tees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom c u r r e nt inv i s ib l es mu st be sold through the B a nk of B raz il or the au tho r i z ed b a n ks at the p r e v a i l i ng m a rk et ra te. Trave lers checks and fo re ign b a n k n o t es a re sold in the "m a n u al m a r k e t /' Trave lers m ay b r i ng in dome s t ic a nd f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy notes f r e e l y. Capital Cap i tal in f lows in the f o rm of f inanc ial loans u n d er Central B a nk Reso lu t ion No. 63 (as am e n d e d) or under the prov is ion of the Foreign Inv e s tm ent Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1) a re sub ject to ce i l ings and requ i re the prior app roval of the C e n t r al B a n k. The p r ior app rov al of C EM P EX is also requ i red for b o r r ow i ng by the pub l ic sector, wh en t he fo r e ign f u n ds o r i g i n a te w i th o f f i c i al f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns ab road f or b o r r ow i ng by t he p r i v a te sector, and w h en the t r a n s a c t i on is to be g u a r a n t e ed by the N a t i o n al T r e a s u ry o r, on i ts b e h a l f, by any o f f i c i al credit i n s t i t u t i o n. E x t e r n al f inanc ing for impo r ts mu st be registered w i th the Cen t ral B a n k. Moreover, im p o rt f inanc ing w i th c red it te rms exceed ing one year requ i res the approval of the Cen t ral B a n k. O the rw i se, i nw a rd t r an s f e rs a re u n r e s t r i c t ed and f r ee of c o n t r o l, a l th o ugh the sub s equ ent u t i l i z a t i on of the proceeds for the a c q u i s i t i on of c e r t a in dom e s t ic assets may be sub ject to con t ro l. There is a sepa ra te reg ime for i nw a rd p o r t f o l io inv e s tm en t. For the purpose of r e p a t r i a t i on and the r em i t t a n ce of income, however, inwa rd t r an s f e rs of foreign c ap i t al and the r e i n v e s tm e nt of p ro f i ts on fo re ign capital mu st be registered w i th F IRCE. Foreign c ap i t al is defined for th is purpose as ( 1) goods, m a c h i n e r y, and e q u i pm e nt wh ich have en te red the c o u n t ry w i t h o ut an i n i t i al c o r r e s p o n d i ng e x p e n d i t u re of f o r e i gn exchange and wh i ch are to be used to p roduce goods or to r e n d er services, and (2) f in an c i al and m o n e t a ry resources brought i n to the c o u n t ry for i n v e s tm e nt in e conom ic pu r su i t s, p rov ided t h a t, in e i ther case, the owner is a person or firm res ident or dom ic i led abroad or w i th headquarters abroad. Foreign cap i tal o ther t h an c ap i t al invested in B r a z i l i an securities is c lass i f ied, for purposes of r e g i s t r a t i o n, as direct inv e s tm en ts or loans, whe ther im p o r t ed in the fo rm of money or of goods, and it i n c l u d es re inve s ted prof i ts f r om fo r e ign c a p i t a l. D irect i n v e s tm e nt is def ined as th at fo r e ign c ap i t al wh i ch con s t i tu t es pa rt of the corpora te cap i tal and pa r t ic ipa tes d i r e c t ly in the risk inherent in an economic und e r t ak ing. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate cap i tal of any enterprise that does not p a r t i c ip a te d i rec t ly in cap i tal BRAZIL risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to pu rchase cap i tal goods abroad, whe ther conceded by the m a n u f a c t u r er h im se lf or by a th i rd pa r ty, is considered to be f inanc ing (mos t ly supp l ie r s' c r e d i t ). Loans are cons idered to be cash loans when m o n e t a ry or financial resources a re b rought i n to B raz i l. Persons dom ic i led or re s ident ab road may m a ke por tfo l io inves tmen ts in B raz i l ian comme rc ial and i n d u s- t r i al securities, provided th at t r an s a c t ions a re channe led th rough a B raz i l ian " inves tment company" and are effected on B raz i l ian stock exchanges. Such c a p i t al is sub ject to r eg i s t r a t ion w i th the Cen t ral B ank and must r em a in in the c o u n t ry for at least th r ee yea r s, fo l low- ing w h i ch r e p a t r i a t i on may be m a de f ree of i n c ome taxes at an average ra te of up to 20 per cent eve ry s ix mon th s. The m i n im um pa r t ic ipa t ion in p o r t f o l io inv e s t- ment companies by foreign firms or i n d i v i d u a ls is US$10,000. For f inanc ial impor ts and for inve s tmen ts m ade in the fo rm of goods, registration is made in the currency of the coun t ry of domicile of the c red i tor or inves tor (or of its head o f f ice) or, in special c i rcum s tance s, in the cu r r en cy of the c o u n t ry of o r ig in of the goods or of the c red i t. To register loans t h at are made in fo r e ign cu r r en cy it is necessary to c e r t i fy t h at the i n t e r e st ra te corresponds to t h at p r ev a i l ing in the o r i g i n al m a r k et of the loan, t h at the amo r t i z a t ion schedule is not d i s- p ropo r t iona te ly heavy in the ear ly stages of r ep aym en t, a n d, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the impo r ted goods correspond to the prices of compa rab le goods in the c o u n t ry of o r ig in. If the t e rms of f inanc ing a re app roved, CACEX e x am i n es the a p p l i c a t i o ns for some f o r e i gn b o r r ow i ng in the l ight of the p r ice and e s s e n t i a l i ty of the proposed im p o rt and of the a v a i l a b i l i ty of sinu'Iares nationals. The r eg i s t r a t ion of d i r e ct i n v e s tm e nt is sub j e ct to the f o l l ow i ng ru l e s: The cap i tal t h at en te rs or has en tered B raz il is registered in fore ign cu r r en cy. R e i n v e s tm e n ts are de f ined as profits of compan ies es tab l ished in B r a z il and accrued to persons or compan ies resident or dom i c i l ed ab road; such p ro f i ts must have been re inve s ted in the same c om p a n i es t h at p roduced th em or in ano ther sec tor of the B r a z i l i an economy. The r e g i s t r a t i on of r e inv e s t ed prof i ts is m ade s im u l t a n e o u s ly in B r a z i l i an c u r r e n cy and in the c u r r e n cy of the c o u n t ry to w h i ch the p ro f i ts cou ld have been rem i t ted. The conversion is ca lcu la ted at the average exchange ra te p r e v a i l i ng between the da te on wh ich the p ro f i ts appeared on the ba lance sheet in the case of a comp any, and the date of th e ir r e inv e s tm en t. Special r egu l a t ions gove rn b o r r ow i ng ab road. U n d er C e n t r al B ank R e s o l u t i on No. 63, as am e n d e d, p r i v a te c omm e r c i al a nd i n v e s tm e nt b a n ks a nd t he N a t i o n al B a nk for E conom ic Deve lopment may be au tho r i z ed to take up fo re ign cu r rency c red i ts abroad for domes t ic r e l end ing for purposes of f inanc ing w o r k i ng cap i ta l. The cer t if ica te of reg is tra t ion of the loan for the pu r- poses of the Foreign Inves tment Law is f u r n i s h ed by 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL F IRCE upon approval of the loan by the Cen tral Bank. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits inc lude l im i t a t ions on the fo re ign ob l iga t ions that each bank may assume (re la ted to the te rms of the credit and the size of the b a n k) and the provision that the u l t im a te borrower must agree to bear the exchange r isk. The Cen t ral Bank assures the av a i l ab i l i ty of cover for the repa t r ia t ion of the loan at m a tu r i ty. All other f in an c i al loans in fo re ign currency are effec ted under the gen- eral provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1 ). Loans under th is law also requ i re p r ior Cen t ral Bank au tho r i z a t ion, but the Cen t ral Bank does not und e r t ake to provide exchange cover for them. Loans u n d er Re so lu t ion No. 63 as we ll as those und er Law No. 4131 must have a m i n i m um te rm of five years but no m a x im um te rm is set. Und er a program for the m an ag em ent of ex t e rn al deb t, the N a t i o n al Mon e t a ry Counc il has s ince December 1971 imposed q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i ts on the am o u nt of f inan- c ial loans und er Reso lu t ion No. 63 and Law No. 4 1 31 for wh ich a u t h o r i z a t i on may be given by the Cen t ral B ank. Loans a re au tho r ized o n ly if m a t u r i t i es con fo rm Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1976)8 w i th m i n im um requ i remen ts es tab l ished f rom t ime to t ime by the Cen tral Bank, wh ich pe rm i ts the total of loans ou t s t and ing to rise on ly to the ex tent that the se rv ic ing comm i tm en ts on Brazil's total ex te rnal indebt- edness do not depa rt f rom the path approved by the N a t ion al Mone ta ry Counc i l. At the end of 1976 the Cen t ral Bank's m i n im um acceptable m a t u r i ty stood at five years (un ch ang ed s ince 1975 ). However, pro- vided that the f u ll am o u nt of the fo r e ign exchange r em a ins comm i t ted to B raz il for the m i n im um specified m a t u r i t y, loans to the final borrower in B raz i l, as well as loans to banks und er Reso lu t ion No. 63, may be made at te rms shorter th an the f inal m a t u r i ty of the debt abroad and these f u n ds may subsequently be re - lent to the same or a second borrower. B anks are not pe rm i t ted to pay interest on demand deposits, whe ther held by residents or non res iden ts. Ou tw a rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs not m en t ion ed above requ i re au tho r i z a t ion by GECAM and F IRCE, wh ich con- sider app l ica t ions on the ir merits. Approved exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns i n v o l v i ng ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs of pr iva te c a p i t al are e f fec ted th rough an au tho r ized bank or the B a nk of B r a z il at the p r e v a i l i ng o f f ic ial m a rk et rate. (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying 7.365 (Official Market Rate less 40% Contribution Quota) 9 8.359 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price) 10 Exports of green coffee e f fec ted at a price equal to the m i n im um reg i s t ra t ion p r ice, for p a ym e nt at s igh t. 8.592-9.206 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price) 10 Expo r ts of spray-dr ied soluble coffee. 8.732 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price)10 Expor ts of green deca f fe ina ted coffee e f fec ted at a price equal to the m i n im um reg i s t ra t ion price, for p a ym e nt at sight. 9.820-10.109 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Mar- ket Rate, Contribution Quota, and Mini- mum Registration Price) 1() Expor ts of f r e e z e -d r i ed soluble coffee 11.047 (Official Market Rate less 10% Contribution Quota) Expor ts of cocoa beans and cocoa p roduc ts o ther t h an sweetened cocoa powder. Expo r ts of r aw h i d es of wild animals. 11.661 (Official Market Rate Quota) Exports of tanned or processed h ides of wild an im a l s. Exports of sweetened cocoa powder. 12.275 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign bankno tes and t r a v e l e rs checks. 12.275 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds. O ther proceeds. less 5% Contribution Selling 12.345 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign bankno tes and t r av e l e rs checks. 12.345 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.11 Capital. 8 Exc lud ing b roke rage fees. 6 With effect f r om J anu a ry 1, 1977 the c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta was reduced to 20 per cent for p r o d u c ts of second or t h i rd q u a l i t y. 10 The m i n im um reg i s t ra t ion pr ice is established by the B raz i l ian Co f fee In s t i tu te in U.S. dollars a pound for each t y pe of co f fee. The exchange ra tes shown make allowance for p a ym e nt of the con t r ibu t ion quo ta, which on December 31, 1976 was US$80 a bag for g r e en, g r o u nd or r o a s t e d, and d e c a f f e i n a t ed g reen c o f f ee and US$1.50 a pound for soluble co f f e e. In add i t ion, a n o n r e f u n d a b le depo s it in c ruze i ros equ iva lent to US$8 a bag was requ i red to be deposited in respect of expo r ts of a ll co f f ee o th er t h an soluble co f f e e. 11 A d i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve ra te may app ly to r em i t t a n c es of p r o f i ts and d iv id ends (see section on P a ym e n ts for Inv is ib les, a b o v e ). 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Re s iden ts m ay f ree ly pu rcha se, h o l d, a nd se ll g o ld co ins in B r a z i l. G o ld m i n i ng is r u l ed by L aw N o. 4 4 25 of N o v e m b er 2, 1964. R e s id en ts o ther th an the mon e­ t a ry au tho r i t ies and l i c e n s ed i n d u s t r i al users are not p e rm i t t ed to pu rcha se, h o l d, or s e ll g o ld (o th er th an a l loys for d e n t al use) a b r o ad unless sp e c i al p e rm i s s i on is o b t a i n ed f r om the C e n t r al B a n k. SUMOC I n s t r u c t i on N o. 27 of D e c em b er 1948 s t ipu l a t ed that p rodu c e rs of g o ld mu st s e ll 20 per cent of th e ir ou tput to the N a t i o n al T r e a s u r y, t h r o u gh the B a nk of B r a z i l, at the o f f ic ial m a rk et p r i c e, i .e ., th en at U S $ 35 an o u n c e; the o ther 80 per cent w o u ld r em a in at the free d i s p o s al of the pe r son c o n c e r n e d. H o w e v e r, th is p r o v i s i on was in force u n t il D e c em b er 1962 o n l y, a nd the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t ies do not deal in g o l d. T he dom e s t ic nego t ia­ t i on of n ew ly m i n ed g o l d, w h i ch takes p lace at free m a r k et p r ice s, is subject to a m i n i ng tax of 1 per cen t. T he m i n i ng tax m ay be offset aga inst the o ther tax l i a b i l i t i es if and w h en g o ld is m a n u f a c t u r e d. T he im p o rt of g o ld is subject to the issuance of an im p o rt ce r t i f ica te by C A C E X; im p o r ts of na t ive g o ld a nd of g o ld in the f o rm of p ow d er are free of cus toms du ty. E x p o r ts of g o ld co ins a nd g o ld bars are p r o h i b i t ed a nd the expo rt of g o ld in any o ther f o rm (except j ew e l ry c o n s t i t u t i ng the p e r son al effects of a t r a v e l e r) requ i res an expo rt ce r t i f ica te. Changes during 1976 D u r i ng 1976 the b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies we re ch ang ed on 16 occa s ions as f o l l ow s: J a n u a ry 2 1, f r om C r $ 9 . 0 20 and C r $ 9 . 0 70 to C r $ 9 . 1 95 a nd C r $ 9 . 2 45 per U S $ 1; F e b r u a ry 17, C r $ 9 . 3 70 a nd C r $ 9 . 4 20 per U S $ 1; M a r ch 9, C r $ 9 . 5 50 and C r $ 9 . 6 00 per U S $ 1; M a r ch 30, C r $ 9 . 8 85 a nd C r $ 9 . 9 35 per U S $ 1; A p r il 13, C r$ 10 .220 a nd C r$ 10 .270 per U S $ 1; A p r il 30, C r $ 1 0 . 3 15 a nd C r$ 10 .365 per U S $ 1; M ay 24, C r$ 10 .500 a nd C r$ 10 .550 per U S $ 1; June 8, C r $ 1 0 . 6 00 a nd C r $ 1 0 . 6 50 per U S $ 1; June 2 3, C r $ 1 0 . 7 30 a nd C r $ 1 0 . 8 00 per U S $ 1; J u ly 23, C r $ 1 0 . 8 85 and C r $ 1 0 . 9 95 per U S $ 1; A u g u st 18, C r $l 1.100 and C r$ 11 .170 per U S $ 1; Sep tember 10, C r$ 11 .300 and C r $l 1.370 per U S $ 1; O c t o b er 12, C r $l 1.550 and C r$ 11 .620 per U S $ 1; O c t o b er 28, C r$ 11 .760 a nd C r $l 1.830 per U S $ 1; N o v e m b er 2 5, C r $l 1.985 and C r $ 1 2 . 0 55 per U S $ 1; D e c em b er 2 2, C r $ l 2 . 2 75 a nd C r$ 12 .345 per U S $ 1. January 1. I BC R e s o l u t i on N o. 9 60 of D e c em b er 3 1, 1975 came in to effect, w h i ch es tab l ished c o n t r i b u t i on quotas of U S $ 29 a bag f or expo r ts of green a nd wa shed coffee and U S $ 0 . 20 a p o u nd for decaffe ina ted green coffee, for exchange con t rac ts c lo s ed after D e c em b er 3 1, 1975. ( On J a n u a ry 2 2, the I BC a n n o u n c ed that the c o n t r i b u t i on quo tas h ad been f ro z en at these leve ls a nd w o u ld no long er be adjusted w h en changes we re made in the c r u z e i ro p a r i t y .) January 1. I BC R e s o l u t i on N o. 961 of D e c em b er 3 1, 1975 came in to effect, w h i ch es tab l ished a c o n t r i b u t i on B R A Z IL quo ta of U S $ 0 . 15 a p o u nd for expo r ts of so lub le coffee for exchange con t rac ts c lo s ed after D e c em b er 3 1, 1975. January 8. C e n t r al B a nk C i r c u l ar N o. 284 regu la ted C e n t r al B a nk R e s o l u t i on N o. 353 of D e c em b er 2, 1975, w h i ch h ad i n t r o d u c ed a S p e c i al P r o g r am of E x p o rt Incen t ive s. T he c i r c u l ar p r o v i d ed for spec ial f i n a n c i ng f a c i l i t i es for the w o r k i ng c a p i t al r equ i r em en ts of c o m­ panies p r o d u c i ng a nd e x p o r t i ng m a n u f a c t u r ed p rodu c t s, at a t e rm of 3 60 day s, in amoun ts e q u i v a l e nt to 100 per cent of the inc rease in th e ir expo r ts in the p r ev ious yea r. C A C EX C o m m u n i c a t i on N o. 539 of J a n u a ry 8 spec i f ied the c o n d i t i o ns firms h ad to meet in o r d er to q u a l i fy for these benefits. C o m m u n i c a t i on N o. 1 of J a n u a ry 15 of the F u nd for the F i n a n c i ng of E x p o r ts (F INEX) regu la ted the u t i l i z a t i on of the c o r r e s p o n d i ng l ines of c r ed it to b ank s. January 9. F IRCE C i r c u l ar L e t t er N o. 75 spec i f ied the rates of in terest to be a p p l i ed to im p o rt financing at terms in excess of 3 60 days, a nd th e ir r e l a t i o n s h ip to the N ew Y o rk p r ime rate or the L o n d on in t e rb ank offered ra te. January 9. Im p o rt letters of c r e d it w i th p aym ent terms in excess of 360 days f r om the date of s h i pm e nt c o u ld h en c e fo r th be op en ed w i t h o ut p r i or c o n c l u s i on of the exchange c o n t r a c t. E x t e r n al financing for impo r ts und er s u ch a r rangemen ts was subject to reg is­ t r a t i on w i th the C e n t r al B a n k. T he exchange c o n t r a ct c o u ld be c o n c l u d ed w i t h in two w o r k i ng days of the due date of the o b l i g a t i on to t ran s fer funds a b r o ad if the t rans fer was to take p lace by t e l eg r am or te lex, a nd w i t h in ten w o r k i ng days of the due date if by a i r m a il or ch e ck (F IRCE C omm u n i c a t i o ns N o s. 25 a nd 2 6 ). January 14. T he E c o n o m ic D e v e l o pm e nt C o u n c il a n n o u n c ed the gu ide l ines a nd p rocedu res for e c o n om ic p o l i cy in 1976. In the ex t e rn al p o l i cy field, they i n c l u d ed an im p o rt budget f or F e d e r al G o v e r nm e nt M i n i s t r i es rep re sen t ing a r e d u c t i on of 25 per cent ( to U S $ 1 , 5 00 m i l l i o n) f r om the l e v el of a c t u al g o v e r n­ ment im p o r ts in 1975 (o th er t h an p e t r o l e um a nd w h e a t ); c e i l ings we re also es tab l ished for M i n i s t r i e s' fo r e ign exchange expend i tu res on serv ices ( f re igh t, t r a v e l, a nd pu rcha se of t e c h n i c al s e r v i c e s ). January 20. D e c r ee N o. 7 7 0 65 def ined the te rms a nd c o n d i t i o ns for ex emp t ions a nd r edu c t ions of cu s toms du ty a nd the tax on m a n u f a c t u r ed p rodu c ts ( I PI t a x) p r o v i d ed for in D e c r e e - L aw N o. 1428 of D e c em b er 2, 1975 (see M a r ch 9, b e l o w ). January 30. M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce O r d er N o. 529 of N o v e m b er 29, 1975 e s tab l i shed at 25 per cent the w i t h h o l d i ng tax to be p a id on 70 per cent of the ea rn ings on the e x h i b i t i on of f o r e i gn films, w h en r em i t t ed a b r o a d. February 5. C e n t r al B a nk R e s o l u t i on N o. 358 ex emp t ed a d d i t i o n al i tems f r om advance im p o rt depos it in respect of the issuance of an im p o rt l i c en s e. February 6. CAC EX C o m m u n i c a t i on N o. 543 sus­ pended u n t il June 30, 1976, the issuance of im p o rt 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL certificates for 292 commodities regarded as superfluous. Exempt were impor ts approved by CACEX for inc lus ion in exports or re-exports; imports under drawback, when approved by CACEX; goods of LAFTA origin when imported f rom LAFTA countries and appea r ing in the Braz i l ian Na t ional List or in the special concession lists for Bolivia, Paraguay, and U ruguay; and imports effected directly by the Federal Government to supp ly the domestic marke t. February 12. Resolution No. 36 of the Conselho de Nao-Ferrosos e Siderurgia (CONS IDER) placed the ma r- ke t ing of impor ted coal und er the control and super- vision of Siderurgica Bras i le ira (S IDEBRAS) . February 13. Decree-Law No. 1446 granted exemp- tion f rom income taxes to earnings derived f rom the r end e r ing of technical services abroad. February 17. Central Bank Circular No. 288 included inves tment banks in the program operated by CACEX for the financing of the w o r k i ng cap i tal r equ i r em en ts of manu fac tu re rs and exporters. February 17. It was announced that purchases or sales of exchange re la t ing to transac t ions of any k i nd under b i la te ral paymen ts agreements carried out on or af ter February 23, 1976 must be agreed in U.S. do l lars; such transactions became exempt f rom the con trac t ing of specific su r render or cover w i th the Cen t ral Bank (GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 300). February 18. Central Bank C ircu lar No. 289 increased the numb er of eligible bo r rowe rs in respect of fore ign currency loans and impo rt financing at terms of over five years who could receive a rebate equivalent to 85 per cent of the w i thho ld ing tax of 25 per cent payable on rem i t tances of in teres t, comm iss ions, and expenses. February 24. Exporters of coffee were permitted to finalize exchange transac t ions up un t il the date of the sh ipment of the goods. Previously, they were requ ired to close exchange contracts w i th in 24 hours of the reg i s t ra t ion of the sale. The new regu la t ions gave exporters up to 90 days, between registry and sh ipmen t, to use the most su i tab le rate of exchange available. March 9. CPA Resolutions Nos. 2717, 2718, and 2719 gran ted the following customs du ty concessions: ( 1) A reduc t ion of 50 per cent of the impo rt du ty on equ ipmen t, machinery, apparatus, or ins t rumen ts, provided there were no similares nationals, when imported by public bodies and mixed economy com- pan ies engaged in public transport services, ra i l, unde r- g round, or wa te r; hyd rau l ic systems m a n u f a c t u r e; the generation, transm iss ion, and d is t r ibu t ion of electric energy; telecommunications; opera t ing a i rpo r ts; conces- sionary companies p roduc ing piped combustible gas; and other firms when impor ts we re essential for the construction, expans ion, or conservation of the importer's in s ta l la t ion s. (2) A reduction of 50 per cent of the impo rt duty on equ ipmen t, machinery, apparatus, or ins trumen ts, without similares nationals, when imported by public 92 works or service contractors and in tended solely for use in the execu t ion of approved pro jec ts or p rog rams for pub l ic works or services, prov ided the benef ic iary was included in one of the following sectors: rail, road, or unde rg round t ranspo r t, ports, a irpor ts, hydraulic sys- tems m a n u f a c t u r e, the gene ra t ion, transm iss ion and d i s t r ibu t ion of e lec tr ic energy, te lecommun ica t ions, steel, or petroleum (exp lo ra t ion, d r i l l ing of wells, and p r o d u c t i o n ). ( 3) A reduction of 40 per cent of the impo rt d u ty on essen t ial rep lacement parts and componen ts for the i n d u s t r i al sectors men t ioned in ( 2 ). The concessions under ( 1) and (2) applied also to spa re par ts impo r ted w i th the equ ipmen t, provided that the ir va lue did not exceed 10 per cent of that of the m a ch in e ry. The concession und er (3) was sub ject to proof to CACEX that such parts were u n o b t a i n a b le in B raz il or that the ir produc t ion in B raz il was econo- m i c a l ly u n f e a s i b l e. The concessions u n d er (1) and (3) app l ied only to shipments for wh ich an import l icense for more than US$5,000 had been issued. March 24. Decree-Law No. 1450 exempted f rom impo rt d u t i es and the advance impo rt deposit require- m ent impo r ts of cap i tal goods without similares nationals for use in the I t a ipu hydroelectric complex. March 24. GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 303 fu r th er rev ised a r r a n g em e n ts for pe rsonal r em i t t an c es abroad. March 26. Order No. 100 of the M in is try of Finance es tab l ished a Commission for Export Incentives (Cmx) to adm in i s t er programs of incen t ives for impo r ts of cap i tal goods und er Decree-Law No. 1428 of Decem- ber 2, 1975. The Commission would be responsible for a dm i n i s t e r i ng tax incentives for exports, inc lud ing the concession of credits in respect of the tax on m a n u f a c t u r ed products (IPI t a x ). March 31. The Commission for Coo rd ina t ion of the Ac t iv i t ies of Electronic Processes ( CA P R E) was autho- rized to con t rol impo r ts of compu te rs and re la ted equip- ment (CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 549 ). April 1. In te rm in i s te r ial Order No. 518 re-established a compu lso ry register for impo r ts. Me rchand ise for the impor ter's own use was exempt f rom registration. Regis- t r a t ion was to cover all inpu t s, ou tpu ts, and stocks of fo r e ign goods acquired by im p o r t a t i o n, op t ion, or pur- chase on the domestic marke t, which were for the use or consump t ion of th ird parties. April 2. Personal rem i t tances in favor of beneficiaries abroad to ta l ing more than US$300 a mon th for any single rem i t ter required ind iv idual approval by the Central Bank (GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 305). April 7. The regu la t ions rega rd ing baggage imported by fore ign tourists and Braz i l ians were tightened. The du ty-free l im it for persons en te r ing Brazil, other than for used clothing and the passenger's books and maga- z ines, was fixed at US$100; any add i t ional goods up to a value of US$900 would be subject to duty, and any goods in excess of US$1,000 would be impounded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Du t ies on a lcoho l ic beve rages pu rchased abroad were set at 400 per cen t, and those on p e r f um e s, cosme t ics in gene ra l, f u r s, p l a y i ng ca rd s, a l a rm c locks, and lighters, at 350 per cen t. Fu r the rmo re, fore ign goods adm i t ted th rough the M a n a us f r ee zone cou ld no longer be t r a n s f e r r ed to o th er p a r ts of B r a z i l. P rov i s ion was made for the o p e r a t i on of cu s toms wa rehou se r eg im es for impor ts and exports. The M i n i s t ry of F inance was empowered to a u t h o r i ze the op e r a t ion of d u t y - f r ee shops at ports and a i r p o r ts (Dec ree -Law No. 1 4 5 5 ). April 20. The e x i s t i ng r e q u i r em e n ts to be met by persons p u r c h a s i ng fo r e ign ex ch ange for t r a v el ab ro ad were t igh t en ed (C e n t r al B a nk R e s o l u t i on No. 3 7 6 ). April 20. G E C AM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 307 i n t r o d u c ed a d d i t i o n al r e g u l a t i o ns a f f e c t i ng sa les of f o r e i gn exchange for t ravel ab road. Trave lers whose pa s spo r ts c o n t a i n ed a record of a p rev ious pu rcha se of t r a v el e x c h a n ge could n ot a c q u i re a ny f u r t h er exchange a l l o c a t i on f rom b a n ks or t o u r i st agenc ies, w i t h o ut a u t h o r i z a t i on f rom the C en t r al B a n k, u n l e ss proof w as p r o v i d ed either that the t r ip abroad had been made or t h at the fo re ign exchange has been resold to an a u t h o r i z ed dealer. Persons w i s h i ng to pu r ch a se t r a v el ex ch ange for t ravel ab road by p r i v a te m e ans of t r a n s p o rt had to request p r ior au tho r i z a t ion f rom the Cen t ral B ank. Au thor ized i n s t i t u t i o ns s e l l i ng fo re ign ex ch ange f or travel were requ i red to i n d i c a te on the t r a v el t i c k et the am o u nt sold, the da te of the t r a n s a c t i o n, and the n um b er of the vou ch er r e l a t i ng to the o p e r a t i o n. April 23. IBC R e so lu t ion No. 977 e s tab l i shed con- t r i b u t i on quo t as of US$25 a bag, US$35 a bag, US$0.24 a pound, and US$0.20 a pound for expo r ts of washed coffee, green coffee, d e c a f f e i n a t ed green coffee, and soluble coffee, respec t ive ly. They wou ld a p p ly to reg is tra t ions for s h i pm e nt a f t er J u ly 1 in respect of washed, green, and d e c a f f e i n a t ed g reen co f fee, and after October 1 in respect of so lub le co f fee. April 29. FIRCE Commun ica t ion No. 27 s t ipu la ted that impo r ts w i t h o ut exchange cover, in the f o rm of foreign inv e s tm en t, wou ld be res t r ic ted to m a c h i n e ry and e q u i pm e nt in t end ed for i n d u s t r i al u se o r, in excep t ional c i rcum s tance s, to goods needed to comp l e- ment or mode rn ize p l a n ts a l r e a dy in ope ra t ion. April 29. I n t e rm i n i s t e r i al Order No. 146 p r o h i b i t ed the t r a n s f er for any reason of fo r e ign goods impo r ted into the M a n a us f ree zone to o ther par ts of B r a z i l. May 24. Decree No. 77657 res t r ic ted impo r ts in 1976 in to the M a n a us free zone (o ther t h an wheat and pe t ro leum) to US$280 m i l l i o n. May 26. Order No. 183 of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce permitted exporters of m a n u f a c t u r ed goods to classify as ope ra t ing expenses ce r ta in p r om o t i o n al e x p e n d i t u r es abroad, i n c l u d i ng e x p e n d i t u r es for the r eg i s t r a t ion of B raz i l ian t r a d em a r ks and pa ten ts and for the m a i n t e- nance of offices and wa rehouses. R em i t t a n c es for the payment of such expenses wou ld be ex empt f r om the w i thho ld ing of income tax. BRAZIL June 2. I n t e rm i n i s t e r i al Order No. 192 in troduced the r e q u i r em e nt of an im p o rt cer t if ica te for goods im p o r t ed i n to the M a n a us f ree zone. Licenses had to be ob ta ined f rom CACEX prior to sh ipmen t, a f ter approval was g iven by the M a n a us Free Zone Supe r in tendency ( S U F R A M A ). June 4. The i s suance of B r a z i l i an passpor ts, the g ran t- ing of police exit v isas in passports, and the issuance of police exit v isas to f o r e i g n e rs p e rm a n e n t ly r e s i d i ng in B r a z il became sub ject to the p a ym e n t, in cash, of a d epo s it of Cr$12 ,000. The p a ym e nt was also requ i red in respect of each a d d i t i o n al person app e a r ing in the ho lde r 's passpo r t. The depo s i ts w o u ld be he ld for one yea r, w i t h o ut i n t e r e st or m o n e t a ry co r r e c t ion. The pe r sons conce rned, w h en p u r c h a s i ng f o r e i gn exchange f rom b a n ks and t ravel agencies for purposes of travel a b r o a d, were r e q u i r ed to p roduce the rece ipt of pay- m e nt of the depos i t. Persons e x em pt f r om the depos it r e q u i r em e nt i n c l u d ed s t u d e n ts a nd t e a ch e r s; a t h l e t e s; pr ies ts and n u n s; t e chn i c i ans and spec ia l is ts whose t r a v el ab road w as of n a t i o n al i n t e r e st to B r a z i l; a r t i s t s; and e x p o r t e r s. (Dec ree -Law No. 1470 and Decree No. 77745.) June 4. C e n t r al B ank R e s o l u t i on No. 380 and G ECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 311 i n t r o d u c ed the im p l em e n t i ng r e g u l a t i o ns for the depo s it r e q u i r em e nt in respect of passpo r ts and e x it visas. June 4. G E CAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3 12 p re sc r ibed a depos it e q u i v a l e nt to 100 per cent of the v a l ue of the exchange t r a n s a c t i on in respect of f o rw a rd exchange c o n t r a c ts for the o p e n i ng of im p o rt le t ters of c r ed i t. Depos i ts were p ay ab le to the Cen t ral B a nk on the wo rk- ing day f o l l ow i ng the da te of the exchange t r a n s a c t i on and wou ld be released on the da te of se t t lement (or, if app l icab le, of c a n c e l l a t i on of the exchange t r a n s a c t i o n ). June 4. G ECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3 13 su spended the a u t h o r i z a t i on of reg is tered t o u r i st agenc ies to issue t i ck e ts or vouchers cove r ing expenses of g round trans- p o r t a t i on and hotels. June 9. Reg is te red e x p o r t i ng f irms were p e rm i t t ed to a p p ly for e x em p t i on f r om the C r$12 ,000 p r ior depos it r e q u i r em e nt for i n t e r n a t i o n al t ravel by t h e ir rep re sen ta- t ives (CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 552 ). June JO. GECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3 15 exemp ted c e r t a in impo rt i tems f rom the p r ior deposit r e q u i r em e nt on f o rw a rd pu rchases of exchange for im p o r t s. They inc luded p r i n t i ng paper for new spape r s, magaz ine s, and books; f e r t i l i z e rs and a g r i c u l t u r al ch em i c a l s, as well as raw m a t e r i a ls for t h e ir p r o d u c t i o n, prov ided these m a t e r i a ls were in c lud ed in the ex emp t ions f rom the impo rt deposit requ i rement established in Central Bank Reso lu t ions Nos. 354 and 358; and goods impo r ted in to the Manaus f ree zone. June 75. CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 555 con t inu ed the im p o rt su spen s ion for sup e r f luous goods u n t il December 31. This C omm u n i c a t i on was revoked by CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 556 of J u ne 21. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL June 18. In terna t ional Order No. 218 provided for ce r ta in exemp t ions f rom the requ i rement to produce either a receipt showing payment of Cr$ 12,000 on the issuance of a passport or police exit visa, or a cer t if ica te of exemp t ion, when purchas ing the fore ign exchange a l loca t ion for trave l. The exemp t ions inc luded holders of passports issued or renewed pr ior to J u ne 4, 1976 for a period of six mon ths f r om the d a te of issuance or renewa l; and holders of passports for wh ich a police ex it v isa was g ran ted pr ior to J u ne 4, 1976 for a per iod of six mon ths f r om the g r an t ing of the v isa on the passport. June 21. CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 556 ex tended u n t il December 31 the suspens ion of the issuance of impo rt cer t if ica tes for i tems covered by CACEX Com- m u n i c a t i on No. 555, added 32 i tems to the l i st of goods regarded as supe r f luous (wh i le a l low ing the issue of ce r t i f ica tes for 5 i t ems of those o r i g i n a l ly s u s p e n d e d ), and a l lowed the im p o rt of any i tems covered by f o r e i gn f i n a n c i ng even if c lass if ied as supe r f luou s. CACEX Com- m u n i c a t i o ns Nos. 543, 546, and 555 we re cance l led. June 21. Order No. 223 of the M i n i s t ry of F in an ce ex tended export tax incen t ives to m a n u f a c t u r e rs sup- p ly ing m a ch in e ry and e q u i pm e nt to service compan ies c a r r y i ng out ope ra t ions abroad. Ex emp t ion f r om income tax payab le on ea rn ings abroad f rom the supp ly of techn ical ass is tance, as well as f r om income a r i s ing f r om f a i rs and exh ib i t ions was also g r an t ed to c om p a n i es per- f o rm i ng the services concerned. June 23. Order No. 225 of the M i n i s t ry of F in an ce de ta i led goods wh i ch could be accorded cus toms w a r e- hous ing facilities on en try in to Brazil. The list of goods covered most of those in the t a r i ff schedu le. Goods impo r ted und er these a r r a n g em e n ts for exh ib i t ions and f a i rs were not a f fec ted. Moreover, only p roduc ts s u b j e ct to pr ior impo rt l i c en s ing by CACEX we re e l ig ib le for th is t rea tmen t. June 30. GECAM Commun i c a t ion No. 317 prov ided tha t, e f fec t ive J u ly 1, exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns re la ted to coffee expor ts covered by sales dec la ra t ions registered by the IBC cou ld be con trac ted up to two w o r k i ng days be fo re the da te of exp i ra t ion of the period tor sh ipp ing, where the sh ipp ing documents were issued at the same loca t ion as the exchange con t rac t, and up to f ive wo rk- ing days be fo re exp i ra t ion whe re these d o c um e n ts were issued at ano ther loca t ion. June 30. GECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 3 18 p rov ided tha t, w i th e f fect f r om Ju ly 1, advances r e l a t i ng to exchange con t rac ts covered by d e c l a r a t ions for the sale of green coffee registered w i th the IBC could be g ran ted by au tho r ized b anks on ly whe re the expor ter presen ted, as a gua ran tee, a w a r r a nt r e p r e s e n t i ng the phys ical vo lume of coffee involved. July 2. IBC Resolution No. 986 established a con- tr ibu t ion quota of US$0.30 a pound for exports of soluble co f fee, w i th e f fect f r om J u ly 5. 94 July 2. Order No. 251 of the M in i s t ry of F inance i n s t i t u t ed ob l iga tory reg is t ra t ion of impor ters, as pro- v ided for in Decree-Law No. 1427 of December 2, 1975. July 2. CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 559 provided, w i th e f fect f r om September 30, that on ly f irms registered in the gene ral reg is try of exporters and impor ters of CACEX could engage in fo r e ign t rade opera t ions. Both im p o r t e rs and expor ters were requ i red to subm it to CACEX de ta i led p rog rams of expected impo rt and export op e r a t ion s. July 2. The t r a d e ' a g r e em e nt w i th Greece signed on J u ne 9, 1975 came in to e f fect and the p rov is ional t rade and p a ym e n ts ag reement of 1960 was t e rm in a t ed. S e t t l em en ts be tween the two coun t r i es were placed on a conve r t ib le cu r r en cy basis. The new ag r e em ent was p r om u l g a t ed by Decree No. 78228 of August 12. July 2. CACEX es tab l ished an Expo rt P rocedu res C omm i t t ee on wh ich r ep r e s en t a t iv es of export and t r ade o rg an i z a t ion s, bank s, and agenc ies wou ld serve u n d er the c h a i rm a n s h ip of the D i rec tor of CACEX to m a ke r e c omm e n d a t i o ns for the r a t i o n a l i z a t i on of export r u l es and p rocedu res and to p repa re mea su res to f a c i l i- t a te a nd s t r e n g t h en t he expo rt t r a de ( CA C EX Commu- n ica t ion No. 560 ). July 6. CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 561 exemp ted f r om im p o rt d u ty c e r t a in f e r t i l i z e rs w h en used exc lu- s ive ly in a g r i c u l t u r e. July 8. G E C AM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 320, in c o n j u n c- t i on w i th G ECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 315, regu la ted the depo s it r e q u i r em e nt of C omm u n i c a t i on No. 312 and ex emp t ed con t r a c ts r e l a t i ng to im p o r ts of goods l ink ed to d rawback t ransac t ions au tho r ized by CACEX. July 9. CACEX C i r cu l ar Le t ter No. 1138 listed a n um b er of goods sub j e ct to new impo rt mea su re s; most were app l icab le when the goods were of P a r agu ay an or A r g e n t i ne o r i g i n, but c e r t a in i t ems were a f fec ted rega rd le ss of o r i g i n. The r e s t r i c t i o ns f e ll i n to two ca tego r ie s: ( 1) For some goods the issue of impo rt l i c en s es was su sp end ed. These i n c l u d ed raw cotton (w h en of non-LAFTA o r i g i n ), r ice, po rk, beans (when o r i g i n a t i ng in P a r a g u a y ), co t ton pads, cas tor beans, h a r v e s t e r s, b u t t e r, co rn, and f r e sh eggs. (2) For o ther goods impo rt licenses could be ob ta ined only f rom the R io de J a n e i ro off ice of CAC EX; these inc luded acrylo- n i t r i te b u t a d r e ne s ty r en e, g a r l i c, c a n a ry seed, m a n u a l ly ope ra ted k n i t t i ng m a c h i n e s, e q u i pm e nt f or r e c r e a t ion g r o u n d s, i n c om p l e te mo tor veh ic les, potatoes, ce r ta in f e r t i l i z e r s, l ive c a t t le f or s l augh t e r, rubb e r, n a t u r al r u b b er l a t e x, powdered m i l k, and Pha rmaceu t ica l s. July 9. Expo r ts of co t tonseed and co t tonseed cake and m e al we re suspended. July 16. CACEX Commun i c a t ion No. 562 ex tended the 100 per cen t, 360-day impo rt depos it r e q u i r em e nt to the p lac ing of goods in B raz i l ian cus toms warehouses. Impo r ts of me rchand i se f r om cus toms wa rehouses were l im i t ed to those p roduc ts l is ted in O rder No. 225 of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M in is t ry of F inance of J u ne 23. The Commun ica t ion also regulated the placing of goods in the Manaus free zone and prohibited their t rans fer to other parts of Brazil without prior government authorization. July 22. Decree No. 78118 established an impo rt quota of US$20 m i l l ion a mon th for the M an aus f ree zone for the second half of 1976. Thus, the ce i l ing on imports into the free zone (exc lud ing imports of wheat and petroleum) was increased f rom US$280 m i l l ion to US$400 million. July 26. GECAM Commun i c a t ion No. 322 in troduced new regu la t ions a f f e c t i ng fo re ign cu r rency deposits held with the Cen t ral Bank in connec t ion w i th the unused portion of fo re ign cu r rency loans b rought to Braz il for purposes of leasing operations. (Such loans, when intended for the eventual purchase of leased property, were permitted under Cen t ral Bank Resolution No. 351 of November 1 1, 1975.) The deposits had to be made in the cu r rency of reg i s t ra t ion of the loan; the ir total or partial release could take p lace at the reque st of the depositor, for the equ iv a l ent in cruze iros, if the fo r e ign exchange was sold to the C en t r al B ank at the swap ra te e f fec t ive on the da te of the exchange con t rac t. The deposits wou ld ea rn in terest at the London i n t e r b a nk offered ra te for s ix-mon th deposits. July 27. Coffee exporters were pe rm i t ted to engage in exchange transac t ions related to fu tu r es t ransac t ions on fo re ign commod i ty exchanges ( G E C AM Commun i c a- tion No. 323 ). August 1. A rec ip rocal c red it ag r e em ent w i th Vene- zuela came in to op e r a t ion. August 18. C en t r al Bank R e s o l u t i on No. 387 exemp ted from the 100 per cent advance import deposit impor ts by exporters of m anu f a c tu r es of goods a lready exempt from customs duties and the IPI tax under Decree-Law No. 1189 of September 24, 1971. (Ex emp t ions under the Decree-Law app l ied to impo r ts v a lu ed at no more than 10 per cent of any inc rease in expor ts over the previous y e a r .) August 18. O rder No. 318 of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce on the bas is of Decree No. 1428 es tab l ished general criteria for import du ty and IPI tax concessions to com- panies h av ing an export program or export comm i tmen t. August 30. The Cen t ral Bank issued a m anu al upda t- ing and conso l ida t ing ex i s t ing r egu l a t ions on exchange t ransac t ions. August 31. P e rm a n e nt re s iden ts of A r g e n t i n e, U r u- guayan, P a r a g u a y a n, or Ch i l e an n a t i o n a l i ty cou ld hence- fo r th t ravel to A r g e n t i n a, U r u g u a y, and P a r agu ay under the same cond i t ions as B raz i l ian na t iona l s, i.e., exempt f rom the Cr$ 12,000 deposit requ irement in respect of the issuance of passports and police exit visas. Foreign residents of other na t iona l i t ies con t inued to be subject to the r equ i r em en t. September 3. IBC Reso lu t ion No. 991 es tab l ished a con t r ibu t ion quo ta of US$0.50 a pound for exports of soluble co f fee, w i th e f fect f r om September 6. BRAZIL September 6. The Central Bank announced the intro- duction by the central banks of LAFTA countries of the Latin American Bank Acceptance —ABLA (GECAM Communication No. 326). September 10. IBC Resolution No. 992 established con t r ibu t ion quotas of US$25.30 and US$35.30 for washed and green coffee, respectively, w i th effect f rom October 1. Of the above amounts, US$0.30 was to be deposited w i th in 48 hours of the date of registration at the exchange rate declared; the deposit was not r e fund- able if, for any reason, a sales declaration was cancelled. The deposits were to f inance Brazil's con t r ibu t ion to the I n t e r n a t i o n al Coffee O rgan iza t ion 's P romo t ion and Spe- cial Funds. September 13. Exports of soybeans and soybean oil were suspended, and export sales for f u t u re delivery against the 1977 crop required the prior authorization of CACEX (CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 565). September 27. CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 569 exempted f rom advance import deposits, new goods, i n t e rm e d i a te produc ts, and raw ma te r ia ls in tended for the impor ter's own use and d irec t ly related to m a n u- fac tu re s. The exemp t ion was applicable to an am o u nt equ iv a l ent to 10 per cent of any increase in exports over the level in the period 1974-75. September 29. Seeds and f ru i ts for p lan t ing were exempted f rom the deposit requirement of GECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 312 provided they were exempt f r om the 100 per cent deposit r equ i r em ent of Central Bank Reso lu t ion No. 354 of December 2, 1975 (GECAM Commun i c a t ion No. 3 2 8 ). October 5. IBC Reso lu t ion No. 996 es tab l ished a con t r ibu t ion quota of US$0.60 a pound for soluble coffee, w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1977. October 6. IBC Resolution No. 997 established con- t r ibu t ion quotas of US$30.30 a bag, US$40.30 a bag, and US$0.28 a pound for washed coffee, green coffee, and deca f fe ina ted green coffee, respec t ive ly, for transac- t ions reg is tered at the IBC as of October 7. October 25. Goods purchased in B raz il w i th fo r e ign currency by travelers were exempted f rom all fede ral taxes. Paymen ts with in terna t ional credit cards also were exempt (Decree No. 1485). November 1. It was announced that with effect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1977, export exchange contracts no rma l ly could be l iqu ida ted on ly a f ter receipt of fo r e ign exchange th rough an account m a i n t a i n ed abroad by an au thor ized b a n k. Con trac ts could also be l iqu ida ted, however, on de l ive ry of export documen ts and, in special cases, by the receipt of foreign bankno tes or travelers checks. For goods subject to payment of a contribution quota, the authorized bank purchasing the foreign currency export proceeds would be responsible for collection of the am o u nt to be surrendered (Central Bank Resolution No. 391 and GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 3 3 1 ). November 1. M a x im um commission charges on exchange t ran sac t ions were fixed as fo l lows: for amounts 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL up to US$500,000, 0.1875 per cent; for amoun ts between US$500,000 and US$1 million, 0.125 per cent; and for more than US$1 million, 0.0625 per cent (Cen t ral Bank Resolution No. 392). November 1. The Central Bank announced new da i ly limits for the fo re ign exchange position of authorized banks. The limits, covering the global position for each bank, were as follows: ( 1) bought position in fore ign exchange, US$500,000; (2) sold position for banks w i th capital and free reserves of up to Cr$150 m i l l ion, US$500,000; and (3) for banks with capital and free reserves of more than Cr$150 m i l l ion, US$5 m i l l ion. The m a x im um of the bought exchange position for establishments au thor ized to operate in the m a n u al m a r- ket was fixed at US$25,000 for each location. Exchange purchased in excess of the net bought positions detailed above had to be sold to the Central Bank on a da i ly basis (Cen t ral Bank Reso lu t ion No. 393 ). November 1. The Central Bank issued supp lemen ta ry regulations dealing w i th banks' fo re ign exchange posi- tions. W i th in the global l im i ts established und er Cen t ral Bank Resolution No. 393, banks wou ld also be requ i red to observe l im i ts with respect to currencies other th an U.S. dollars. To this effect, a bank's overall bought posi- tion in cu r rency other than U.S. dollars mu st not exceed 200 per cent of the global l im it on its bought po s i t ion, and the overall sold position must not exceed 20 per cent of the global l im it placed on its sold pos i t ion. Each bank would be free to allocate fo re ign exchange posi- tions for its various branches and depa r tmen ts w i th in the established overall l im i t. The base level of capital and f ree reserves on which the fo re ign exchange pos i t ion would be calculated for each bank would be the amoun ts registered as at June 30, 1976 (GECAM C ircu lar-Le t ter No. 304). November 1. The Central Bank announced the in tro- duction of a new classification of exchange transac t ions, to be effective Janua ry 1, 1977 (GECAM C omm u n i c a- t ion No. 333 ). November 5. IBC Resolution No. 1000 established a con t r ibu t ion quo ta of US$1 a pound on soluble co f fee, w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1977. November 9. Authorized banks no longer required pr ior approval to purchase the exchange proceeds f r om exports to coun tr ies w i th wh ich b i la teral p aym en ts agreements were in force (GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 335). November 16. Advances re la t ing to exchange con- tracts for exports of green coffee could be granted by authorized banks only upon the receipt, as a guaran tee, of a quan t i ty of coffee not less than the q u a n t i ty shown on the sales declaration and not linked to other indebted- ness of the exporter. If the coffee was l inked to an international transaction of any k ind, the bank purchas- ing the exchange could g r ant the advance provided that the amount was applied in whole or in part to settlement 96 of the previous debt of the customer (GECAM Commu- nication No. 337 ). November 19. IBC Reso lu t ion No. 1001 established con t r ibu t ion quotas of US$50 a bag and US$0.35 a pound for green coffee and deca f fe ina ted green coffee, respectively, for transac t ions to be registered on or a f ter November 22. A non re fundab le amount equivalent to US$5 in respect of the c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta on green coffee was to be deposited in cruze iros w i th in 48 hours f r om the da te of reg is t ra t ion, at the exchange rate declared. December 3. IBC Resolution No. 1002 established a c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta of US$1.50 a pound on soluble co f fee w i th e f fect f r om Ma rch 1, 1977. December 9. Exports of hides and skins were restricted to one ha lf of sales in the domestic ma rket (CACEX C i rcu lar Letter of December 9 ). December 10. IBC Reso lu t ion No. 1003 es tab l ished con t r ibu t ion quo tas of US$50 a bag and US$0.38 a pound on green co f fee and deca f fe ina ted green coffee, respec t ive ly, for t r an s a c t ions reg is te red on or a f ter December 13. A n o n r e f u n d a b le amount equ iva lent to US$5 was to be deposited in cruzeiros, w i t h in 48 hours f r om the da te of r e g i s t r a t i on at the exchange ra te declared. December 15. Decree No. 78945 provided that in the fiscal year 1977 the impo r t a t ion, leas ing, r en t a l, or pur- chase on the domes t ic m a rk et of goods of fo r e ign or ig in by organs and agencies of the direct and ind irect Federal Adm in i s t ra t ion and the supervised found a t ions could on ly be effec ted w i t h in ove ra ll v a lue l im i ts approved by the Pres iden t. The l im i ts for i n d i v i d u al m in is tr ies, agen- cies, and found a t ions were not to exceed 88 per cent of the ove ra ll ce i l ings for 1976, except for the steel pro- g ram and the oil sector, which would be subject to separate l im i ts. Import app l ica t ions accompanied by express s ta temen ts of approval by the M in i s ter concerned had to be filed w i th CACEX. The organs and agencies re fe r red to could import, lease, or rent mach inery and equ ipmen t, apparatus, i n s t r um e n t s, and vehicles of fo re ign or ig in only if no similares nacionais existed. Exempt f rom this provision were goods of LAFTA o r ig in when included in Brazil's Na t ional List, in the special l is ts for Bolivia, Ecuador, Pa raguay, or U ruguay, or covered by a comp lemen tar i ty agreement to which Brazil was a s igna tory. The Decree came in to force on J a n u a ry 1, 1977. Decrees Nos. 74908, 76184, 76406, 76407, 76408, and 76704 were revoked, as were any other conflicting provisions. December 20. IBC Resolution No. 1004 established a con tr ibu t ion quota of US$80 a bag on green coffee and decaffeinated green coffee for transactions regis- tered on or a f ter December 21. A non re fundab le amount equ iva lent to US$8 in respect of the contribution quota was to be deposited in cruzeiros w i th in 48 hours ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution f rom the da te of reg i s t ra t ion, at the exchange rate declared. December 20. CACEX Commun i c a t ion No. 574 extended u n t il December 31, 1977 the suspension of the issuance of impo rt c e r t i f i c a t es for goods e n um e r a t ed in CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 556 of June 31 and added some 200 i tems to the l ist conce rned. December 20. Decree-Law No. 1499 ex t end ed income tax bene f i ts to comme rc ial expo rt comp an i es in respect of net ea rn ings on expor ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed p roduc t s. The bene f i ts wou ld r em a in in e f f e ct u n t il 1980. December 20. Decree-Law No. 1501 ex t end ed u n t il December 31, 1977 the increases in impo rt du t ies provided for in Decree-Laws Nos. 1334 of J u ne 25. 1974, 1364 of Nov emb er 28, 1974, and 1421 of Octo- ber 9, 1975. December 21. Decree No. 78986 amended A r t ic le 1 of Decree No. 64833 of J u ly 17, 1969, wh i ch r egu l a t ed the tax i n c e n t i v es g r a n t ed by Dec ree -Law No. 491 of Ma rch 5, 1969 to expo r t e rs of m a n u f a c t u r ed p r o d u c t s. December 22. C en t r al B a nk R e s o l u t i on No. 398 in t roduced a spec ial p rog ram for the f inanc ing of pro- duc t ion for expo r t. (See December 30, be low .) December 23. Decree-Law No. 1507 p rov ided th at the emergency tax es tab l ished by Decree-Law No. 8 3 11 of December 6, 1945 would be collected in the f o rm of the Port Imp rovement Tax and wou ld be lev ied on goods moved in ports and f r om or to sh ips, wh en BRAZIL impo r t ed f rom abroad, at a ra te of 3 per cent of the commerc ial va lue of the goods. December 24. Decree No. 79028 established an ove ra ll l im it for 1977 on impo r ts through the M a n a us f r ee zone ( e x c l u d i ng pe t ro leum and w h e a t) of US$320 m i l l i o n. December 27. Decree-Law No. 1509 ex tended un t il December 31, 1979 the fiscal i n c e n t i v es to expo r te rs of m a n u f a c t u r ed goods in t rodu c ed in Decree-Law No. 1189 of Sep tember 24, 1971. December 30. CACEX C omm u n i c a t i on No. 580 estab- l i shed the c o n d i t i o ns und er wh ich f i rms p r o d u c i ng for export cou ld av a il themselves of the special program for the f inanc ing of p roduc t ion for export provided for in Cen t ral Bank Reso lu t ion No. 398 of December 22. December 31. IBC Resolution No. 1005 established a c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta of US$100 a bag on green coffee and d e c a f f e i n a t ed green co f fee for t r a n s a c t i o ns to be r e g i s t e r ed on or a f t er J a n u a ry 3, 1977. A n o n r e f u n d a b le am o u nt e q u i v a l e nt to US $ 10 in respect of the con- t r i b u t i on q u o ta was to be depos i ted in c ru z e i ros w i t h in 48 hou rs f r om the da te of sales r e g i s t r a t i o n, at the exchange r a te dec la red. December 31. GECAM C omm u n i c a t i on No. 343 changed the c o n t r i b u t i on quo ta on expo r ts of qu a r tz ch ips, w i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1977, to 20 per cent for p roduc ts of second or th i rd qu a l i ty; the quo ta would be unchanged at 40 per cent for p roduc ts of first q u a l i t y. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Bur- mese Kyat. The central rate is K 7.74289 = SDR 1, and Bu rma avails itself of w ider margins. On December 31, 1976 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of the My anma Foreign Trade Bank, the sole authorized dealer in fo re ign exchange, were K 6.6658 and K 6.7991, respectively, per U.S. dollar. The Bank's buy ing and selling rates for sterling on the same date were K 11.3352 and K 11.5619, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board in accordance w i th ins t ruc t ions f rom the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Finance, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the M in i s ter of P l a n n i ng and Finance is in charge of the allocation of fore ign exchange to the public sector. Most exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corpora t ion (ME IC ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are determined by the Cen- t ral Trade Council. Gove rnment agencies and depar t- ments make imports of goods for their own use, inc lud ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most paymen ts for impo r ts are made in accordance w i th an annual fore ign exchange budget d rawn up by the M in is t ry of P l ann ing and Finance. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements w i th Bangladesh are channeled th rough a non re s ident b ank account at the My anma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain se t t lemen ts w i th India are channeled th rough special rupee accounts in that country. Paymen ts to other coun tr ies may be made in any foreign currency or by cred i t ing kya ts to an External Account in Bu rma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currenc ies or to the debit of an Ex te rnal Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All impo r ts are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All impo r ts f r om Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Also pro- hibited are imports of a few commodities f r om any source —principally op ium and s im i lar narco t ics, mon- keys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or char tered by the B u rma Five Star Line whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the M y a nma Fore ign Trade Bank. 98 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, paymen ts for items connected with foreign t rade are allowed au toma t ica l ly, and paymen ts for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Paymen ts for membership fees to educational or tech- nical in s t i tu t ions abroad and paymen ts for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed f ree ly. Fam i ly rem i t tances are permitted only by for- eign m u n i c i p al workers or fo r e ign techn ic ians employed under contract by the Governmen t, the limit being one ha lf of the net salary if the w i fe is l iv ing abroad, and one th i rd of the net sa lary if the w i fe is l iv ing in Burma. Remittances of income resu l t ing f rom inves tment other th an that gu a r an t e ed und er the Inv e s tm ent Act have been suspended. The r em i t t an ce of pens ion paymen ts to retired government employees who served the Govern- ment as Burmese na t iona ls but took up fo re ign citizen- sh ip be fo re d ep a r tu re f r om B u rma is not perm i t ted. Most personal money order rem i t tances to neighboring coun t r i es th rough post offices are not pe rm i t ted. Foreign exchange a l loca t ions for tou r i st travel by resi- dents have been suspended. However, residents who have been g ran ted an o f f ic ial p e rm it to go abroad for any o ther purpose may t ake out f r e e ly the equ iva lent of K 50 in the currency of the coun t ry of des t ina t ion (except I n d i a) or, if that cu r r en cy is not ava i lab le, in s ter l ing notes or U.S. do l lar notes. At presen t, Bu rmese n a t ion a ls are not allowed to travel abroad except on official mis- sions or for emp loyment abroad. On leav ing, non- res ident trave lers who have s tayed in the coun try for less than six mon ths may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of fo re ign cu r rency wh ich they had conve r ted in to kya ts. The export of Burmese cu r rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are genera l ly e f fec ted by the MEIC but some commod i t ies are exported d i rect by o ther gove rnment agencies and depa r tmen ts. There is a list of prohibited expor ts which comprises iron and steel, brass, copper, and a l um i n um and scraps th e r eo f, fo r e ign m a n u f a c t u r e s, and commodities of domestic origin the conservation of which is desired for domes t ic requ i remen t s. All exports to Rhodes ia and Sou th A f r i ca a re p roh ib i t ed. Export proceeds must be obtained in a m a n n er sa t is fac to ry to the exchange con t rol a u t h o r i t i e s; the exchange must be su r rende red to the M y a nma Foreign Trade Bank w i th in six mon ths f rom the da te of sh ipmen t. Certain exports are subs id ized th rough the Export Price Equalization Fund. When expo r ts are made on an f .o .b. basis, buyers are f ree to choose the carr ier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are u sua l ly shipped by the Bu rma Five Star Line or on vessels nom in a t ed by it. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om inv i s ib les m u st be s u r r e n- dered. Travelers may b r i ng in, sub ject to dec lara t ion, any amount in fore ign currency; fore ign nationals who intend to stay for more than six mon ths mu st su r render all foreign exchange in their possession un less special permission is given to the con t ra ry. The impo rt of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Bu rma are governed by the provisions of the Un ion of Bu rma Inves tment Ac t, 1959 and the Inves tment Rules of Feb rua ry 25, 1960 issued under au thor i ty of the Act. Inve s tment proposals are to be considered by an Inve s tment Comm i t tee to ascer- tain whe ther the proposed en te rp r ise w i ll u t i l i ze domestic raw ma ter ia ls, increase domestic emp loymen t, conserve fore ign exchange, and gene ra l ly con fo rm to the eco- nomic plans of the Gov e rnm en t. No p r iva te i n v e s tm e n ts have been made under the Ac t; since Feb rua ry 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of na t iona l iza t ion, perm iss ion has not been g ran ted for any fo re ign private inv e s tm ent in B u rm a. The inve s tment law provides for the t r an s f er ab road of profits a f t er taxes and for the w i t h d r aw al of impo r ted capital at any t ime a f t er f ive years f r om the t ime of entry, in a n n u al quo tas not exceed ing 25 per cent of its o r ig inal va lue. In p r inc ip le, proceeds f r om the l iqu id a- tion or sale of an en te rp r ise may also be t r a n s f e r r ed abroad. All such t r a n s f e rs may, sub ject to prior approval, be made at the o f f ic ial ra te of exchange pre- vailing at the t ime of the t r a n s a c t i o n. However, t ran s- fers of capital proceeds f r om the v o l u n t a ry l i q u i d a t i on of foreign companies were suspended in Ju ly 1963. A ll ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs of cap i tal r equ i re pr ior app rova l. Residents a re not pe rm i t ted to rem it f u n ds abroad for inves tmen t. The r e p a t r i a t i on of personal assets and the mak ing of f am i ly rem i t tances have been suspended, w i th BURMA m inor exceptions, for fo re ign na t iona ls employed in the pr iva te sector; those employed in the public sector may rem it their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of non- residents is not permitted, the au tho r i t ies can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonres ident accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of secu- rities involving nonresident interests require ind iv idual licenses. Gold Res iden ts may hold and negotiate gold jewe l ry, gold coins, and unwo rked gold in Bu rma. Licenses for impor ts and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities of Bu rma. Jewe lry for personal wear may be brought in to B u rma subject to customs dec lara t ion at the port of arr iva l. The export of personal jewe l ry is permitted und er license, subject to the condition that the jewe lry w i ll be repa t r ia ted. No cond i t ions are attached, however, to the t a k i ng out of personal jewe l ry that was declared to the cus toms when it was b rought in to Bu rma. Changes during 1976 April 1. A number of government agencies and d ep a r tm en ts were empowered to e f fect exports of some commod i t ies direct ra ther than th rough the in te rmed ia ry of the Myanma Export-Import Corporation. April L A bank re fo rm became effec t ive crea t ing the M y a nma Foreign Trade Bank wh ich was made the sole au tho r ized dealer in fo re ign exchange. August L An Export Price Equalization Fund came in to opera t ion. Exports exc luded f rom the subsidy scheme were those of m inor vo lume and value, as well as gems and jewe l ry, wh ich were sold at auction at the Gem Empo r ium. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00935443 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc. The central rate is FBu 90.00 = US$1, and Burundi avails itself of wider marg ins. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are fixed at FBu 89.55 buying, and FBu 90.55 selling, per US$1. The Bank quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for other specified currencies1 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Belgian f r a nc and the official market rates for the currencies concerned in Brussels, or, for the Kenya shilling, the Rwanda f r an c, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the za'ire, on their official parities in terms of SDRs as commun i- cated daily by the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank; they may agree rates freely with their customers for Uganda shillings. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and fo r- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Rwanda and Zair^e, are effected through special accounts. With this exception, outgoing paymen ts may be made in any currency, while receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Bu rundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the central bank, by ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not consid- ered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Bu rundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bankno tes). 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda f rancs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zaires. 100 All other debits and credits requ ire the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The open ing of such Accoun ts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to ( 1) physical persons of fo re ign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) jur id ical persons hav ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any fo re ign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited f ree ly for (1) conversion into Bu rundi f rancs for any paymen ts in Bu rundi and (2) paymen ts abroad for travel and represen ta t ion or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Bu rundi f ranc s. Imports and Import Payments All imports or ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Rho- desia are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued at FBu 20,000 or less require licenses; these are generally issued freely, except for certain used clothing, but importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are also produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi on a fo rm entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application con- stitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs offi- cials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of 12 months starting at the end of the month following that of validation (6 months for goods shipped f rom neighboring coun tr ies); in spe- cial cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration of the license must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Sugar, salt, and matches are imported either by public sector agen- cies or are reserved for Burundi nationals. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required f rom private sector importers for certain luxury goods. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license is validated; it is released when the import payment is made. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In pr inc ip le, f o r e i gn exchange is made a v a i l a b le at the time of sh ipm ent of the goods. For c e r t a in p r ime neces- sities, however, do cum en t a ry c red i ts may be opened for which exchange is supp l ied imm e d i a t e l y. For goods under global licenses, fo re ign exchange is not made available un t il a f t er cus toms c lea rance. All imports are subject to a s ta t is t ical tax of 3 per cent ad va lo rem, in a d d i t i on to any a p p l i c a b le cu s toms d u t i es and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les r equ i re app rov a l. S h i p p i ng insurance on coffee exports no rma l ly must be taken out in Bu rundi f r a n cs w i th b roke rs or i n s u r e rs es tab l ished in Burundi. Upon proof of payment of taxes, t r a n s f e rs of ea rn ings of fo re ign n a t i o n a ls are f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed at rates rang ing f rom 18 per cent up to 60 per cent of the net annu al income, d ep end ing on the am o u nt of such income; this reg ime applies to e a rn ings u n d er a labor contract, to income e a rn ed in a p ro fe s s ion, and to prof i ts earned by any en te rp r i se opera ted by an i n d i v i d u al or a p a r tn e r sh ip. P r iva te jo in t - s tock compan ies may free ly t r a n s f er 50 per cent of net d i s t r i b u t ed p ro f i ts to their fore ign non res ident s tockho lders or to s tockho lde rs who a re res ident fo re ign n a t i o n a ls ( to the l a t t e r, a f t er payment of all t ax e s ); however, en terpr ises t h at have obtained approved s t a tus u n d er the I n v e s tm e nt Code may obtain a gua ran tee of fu ll t r a n s f e r a b i l i ty of net declared profits. Persons l e av ing B u r u n di p e rm a n e n t ly are authorized to t rans fer abroad the ir ho ld ings of Bu rundi f r an cs that consist of u n r em i t t ed sav ings or of the proceeds of the sale of the ir personal effects. Trans- fer of income f rom r en t al p rope r t ies to n o n r e s i d e nt owners of fore ign n a t i o n a l i ty is p e rm i t t ed up to 50 per cent of net r en t al income ( a f t er p a ym e nt of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for m a i n t e n a n ce exp en s e s ); resident owners of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i ty may r em it the same propor t ion of such income. Res iden ts of B u r u n di nationality may app ly for exchange needed for f o r e i gn travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi bankno tes. In add i t ion, re s iden ts may f ree ly pu r- chase foreign t ravel t icke ts, up to reasonab le amoun t s, against payment in B u r u n di f ranc s. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a pr ior decla- ration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presen ted for certification by the central bank through an au thor ized bank, w i th the exception of those for co t ton, wh ich may be certified by authorized banks. Exports of arabica cof- fee are the monopoly of the B u r u n di Coffee Company, while exports of robusta coffee require the prior approval of the central bank. Declarations are va l id for six BURUNDI mon th s, but ex tens ions may be g ran ted by the central b a n k. P a ym e n ts must be collected not la ter than 45 days a f t er the goods have left the coun t ry when they are sold to n e i g h b o r i ng coun t r ies, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange pro- ceeds f r om exports must be su r rende red to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days f rom the ir collection. Virtually all expor ts, in c lud ing co f fee, are sub ject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of m anu f a c tu r ed goods may receive a r e f u nd of 3 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue, pro- v ided that they inco rpo ra te raw ma te r ia ls on wh ich im p o rt d u ty has been pa id. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to au tho r i z ed banks. Trave lers may b r ing in any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and up to FBu 2,000 in B u r u n di b ankno t e s. Capital The Inves tment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for f iscal and o ther bene f i ts for dome s t ic and fo r e ign pr iva te investors. New inves tment that fu l f i l ls specified cond i t ions as to am o u nt and econom ic im p o r t a n ce may be gran ted p r io r i ty s ta tus to wh ich spec if ied p r iv i leges a re a t t a ch ed, m a i n ly in the fo rm of exemp t ions f r om impo rt du t ies and f r om taxes on income f r om the inves t- m en t. Impo rt du t ies and taxes may be reduced or sus- pended for goods and e q u i pm e nt needed for s t a r t i ng a p a r t i c u l ar pro ject and, d u r i ng a period of 5 years, for o ther m e r ch and i se needed for the m a n u f a c t u r i ng opera- t ion or for the upkeep of the o r ig in al inv e s tm en t. Taxes on p ro f i ts and real es ta te may be l ikew ise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are g ran ted pr ior i ty s ta tus may ob ta in p ro tec t ion aga inst fo re ign compe t i t ion, pri- or i ty in the allocation of government contracts, and a gu a r an t ee f r om the c e n t r al bank for the f ree t r a n s f er of profits and d iv idends as well as the r ep a t r i a t ion of the inves ted cap i ta l. In add i t ion to these p r iv i leges, compa- n ies u n d e r t a k i ng inv e s tm en ts that are cons idered to be of p r ime impo r tance to B u r u n d i 's econom ic develop- ment may be g ran ted, u n d er a separa te conv en t ion, a gu a r an t ee th at d irect taxes on th e ir ac t iv i t ies w i ll not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Inv e s tm ent Comm iss ion und er the Secre tar iat of the Presidency is charged w i th e x am i n i ng requests for p r i o r i ty s t a tus and g r an t ing the necessary au thor iza t ion. Capital t r a n s f e rs by residents requ ire i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion, as does fore ign capital on which a repa- t r i a t ion gu a r an t ee has been g ran ted. The gua ran tee is given to foreign exchange imported in any of the cur- renc ies quoted by the cen tral bank by res ident en ter- prises for wo rk ing capital purposes and is va l id for one year f r om the date on which the exchange is su r rende red to the central bank through an au thor ized bank. The gua ran tee provides for the t ran s fer of the o r ig inal 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI amount surrendered at the official rate ru l ing on the day of transfer. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases un re f ined gold f rom domestic producers at FBu 350 a gram. A f t er ref in ing abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, w i th the exception that private firms may be licensed to impo rt gold for dental use. Changes during 1976 January 1. Private joint-stock companies could freely t rans fer 50 per cent of net distributed profits to foreign nonresident stockholders or to resident stockholders of fo re ign na t iona l i ty, subject in the la t ter case to prior payment of all taxes. January 1. The list of goods subject to the 100 per cent advance deposit was modified. May 3. A central rate of FBu 90.00 = US$1 was established. Bu rundi con t inued to avail itself of wider marg ins. Previously, the par i ty for the U.S. dollar had been FBu 78.7501 = US$1. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par va lue or central rate for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 wh ich is o f f ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transac t ions in French f rancs, the in te rven t ion currency, between the Banque des E ta ts de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commerc ial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of comm iss ion. Exchange rates for currencies of coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and inc lude a comm iss ion. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measu res genera l ly do not apply to (1) France (and i ts Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories, except the French Terr i tory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other coun t r ies whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera t ions Account (B e n i n, the C e n t r al A f r i c an Empire, Chad, the People's R epub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence a ll paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made f ree ly. All coun t r i e s, except Came roon itself, are considered fo re ign coun t r ie s. A ll f inanc ial t rans fe rs in excess of CFAF 500,000 to coun t r i es of the French Franc Area must be declared to the au tho r i t ies for statistical purposes. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the D irec tora te of Economic Con tro ls and Ex te rnal F i n a n ce in the M i n- istry of Finance, which also supe rv ises bo r row ing and lending ab road, the i s su ing, a d v e r t i s i n g, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo re ign secur i t ies in C am e roon, and i nw a rd and ou twa rd direct i n v e s tm e n t. Exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns re la t- ing to a ll coun tr ies mu st be e f fec ted th rough au tho r ized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion and autho- rized banks. Impo rt licenses are issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy and P l a n n i n g, w h i le expo rt l icen ses r e q u i re the visa of the M in is t ry of F inance. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Opera t ions Account c o u n t ry of the French F ranc A rea, s ince the BEAC m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account w i th the French T rea su ry; settle- ments w i th France (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the other Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies of the French F ranc Area are made in CFA f ranc s, French f r an c s, or the currency of any o ther Op e r a t ions A c c o u nt c o u n t r y. Settlements w i th a ll o ther coun t r i es a re u s u a l ly m ade 1T he CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in C am e roon is issued by the B a n q ue des E ta ts de 1 'A f r i q ue C e n t r a le ( B E A C) and is legal t e n d er also in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Em p i r e, Ch ad, the Peop le's R epub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. through correspondent banks in France in any of the currenc ies of those countries or in French f r an cs th rough Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions p e r t a in ing to non res ident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bankno tes may be credited to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs when ma i led direct to the Na t ional Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the fo re ign correspondents of autho- rized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports f r om Po r tuga l, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. The import f r om all sources of cer- ta in "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale cT importation), in add i t ion to an impo rt license. All other imports, irrespective of o r ig in, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses for these are issued free ly. A ll impo rt t ransac t ions m u st be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized bank when the ir v a lue exceeds CFAF 50,000. Impo rt licenses en t i t le impo r te rs to purchase the neces- sary exchange, p rov ided that the sh ipp ing do cum en ts have been subm i t ted to the au tho r ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts in excess of CFAF 500,000 for inv is ib les to France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area requ ire prior dec la ra t ion but are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to o ther coun t r ies are sub ject to the approval of the M i n- is t ry of F inance. P a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es re la ted to t rade a re pe rm i t ted f r e e ly when the bas ic t rade t r an s a c t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au tho r i z a t ion. T rans fe rs of income a c c r u i ng to non re s iden ts in the fo rm of prof i ts, d iv id end s, and roya l t ies are also per- mitted freely, subject to dec lara t ion, when the basic t r an s a c t ion has been app roved. For tou r ist travel, resi- den ts t r av e l ing to coun t r ies other than France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account coun t r ies of the French F ranc Area may ob ta in an exchange a l loca t ion of an am o u nt equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a yea r; any fo r e ign exchange r em a i n i ng a f t er r e tu rn to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equ iva lent of CFAF 15,000 a day, sub ject to a m a x im um of CFAF 450,000 a tr ip. The t rans fer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by fo re ign na t iona ls is l im i ted in pr inc ip le to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxa t ion purposes, net of tax. Rem i t tances for cu r rent repa ir and manage- m e nt of real proper ty abroad are no rm a l ly l im i ted to the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON years. Depending on fam i ly status, the t rans fer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the sa la ry of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Cameroon is pe rm i t ted upon p resen ta t ion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t ran s fer takes place w i th in one mon th of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of fo re igne rs w o r k i ng in Cameroon temporar i ly, payments to fo re ign coun tr ies of insu rance p rem iums are not pe rm i t ted if the same type of insu rance is ava i lab le in Came roon. Re s ident and nonresident travelers going to coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bankno tes. Travelers to other coun t r i es of the French Franc Area may, sub ject to p r ior dec la ra t ion, take out any am o u nt in BEAC bankno te s. Non res ident trave lers may take out fo r e ign b a n k n o t es and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no dec la ra t ion was made. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Po r tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export t ran sac t ions mu st be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank when v a lu ed at CFAF 50,000 or more and exports to all coun tr ies are sub ject to license, which requires the approval of the M i n i s t ry of F inance. Proceeds f r om exports to all coun t r i es must be collected w i th in 30 days of the date of a r r iv al at the ir des t ina t ion, and proceeds received in cu r renc ies o ther than those of France or an Ope ra t ions Account coun t ry must be surrendered w i th in a mon th a f ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and other Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies in the French F ranc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due f r om residents of other coun tr ies in respect of services and all income ea rned in those coun tr ies f r om fore ign assets must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due date and su r rende red w i t h in a mon th of collection if received in f o r e i gn cu r r en cy. Res ident and non re s ident trave lers may b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes and co ins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as we ll as any am o u nt of fo r e ign b a n k n o t es and coins (except gold co in s) of coun t r ies ou ts ide the French F ranc A rea. Capital Capital movemen ts between Cameroon and France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and other Opera t ions Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange con tro l; capital transfers to all other coun tr ies require exchange control approval and are restricted, but c ap i t al receipts f rom such countries are pe rm i t ted f ree ly. Em i- grants to countries outside the French Franc Area may t rans fer abroad their f u ll sav ings, provided th at they have met the ir tax obligations. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be app l icab le) are m a i n t a i n ed 104 over borrowing and lend ing abroad, over inwa rd and ou tw a rd direct inv e s tm en t, and over the issu ing, adver- t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of f o r e i gn secur i t ies in Camer- oon; these controls relate to the t ransac t ions themselves, not to paymen ts or rece ip ts. W i th the excep t ion of those over the sale or in t rodu c t ion of fo r e ign secur i t ies in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to rela- t ions w i th France (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and those other coun t r ies whose b ank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. The prov is ions of Decree No. 677DF /365, wh i ch in t roduced these special con t ro ls, have been suspended in so f ar as they are con t r a ry to Decree No. 74 /249, on wh ich the present exchange con t ro ls are based. A ll fo r e ign securi- ties, fo r e ign exchange, and t i t les em b o d y i ng c la ims on non re s iden ts must be deposited w i th an au tho r ized i n t e rm e d i a r y, whe ther they be long to re s iden ts or non re s iden t s. Direct i n v e s tm e n ts abroad 2 requ i re the pr ior approval of the M i n i s t ry of F in an c e, un less they t ake the fo rm of a cap i tal increase r e su l t ing f rom r e inv e s tm ent of u n d i s t r i b u t ed p ro f i t s; the f u ll or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of such inve s tmen ts requ i res only a report ex post to the M in i s t er of F inance, un less the ope ra t ion invo lves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a p a r t i c i p a t i on th at had p rev iou s ly been approved as con s t i tu t ing the m a k i ng of a direct invest- ment ab road. Fore ign d irect inv e s tm ent in C am e r o o n3 r equ i re p r ior d e c l a r a t ion to the M in i s t er of F inance, un less they take the f o rm of a cap i tal increase resulting f r om r e i n v e s tm e nt of und i s t r ibu ted p ro f i ts; the M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f r om receipt of the declaration d u r i ng wh ich he may request the pos tponement of the pro jec ts subm i t t ed to h im. The f u ll or p a r t i al l iqu ida t ion of d i rect inve s tmen ts in Cameroon requ i res only report- ing ex post to the M in is ter of F inance, unless the opera- t ion invo lves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a p a r t i c ip a t ion that had p rev ious ly been app roved as c o n s t i t u t i ng the mak ing of a direct inves tment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the l i q u i d a t i on of direct inves tmen ts, wh e th er these are C am e roon i an inv e s tm en ts abroad or fo r e ign invest- men ts in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of F inance w i t h in 20 days f o l l ow i ng each ope ra t ion. Direct inve s tmen ts are de f ined as inve s tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as d i rect inve s tmen t, provided th at it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The i s su ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign s e cu r i t i es in Cameroon requires pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the M i n i s t er of F inance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt f r om au tho r i z a t ion, however, and subject on ly to an ex post report, are operations in - Inc lud ing those made t h r o u gh the in te rmed ia ry of fore ign compa- nies t h at are d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in Cameroon and those m a de by b ranches or sub s id ia r ies ab road of companies in Came roon. 3 I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Cameroon t h at are directly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er f o r e i gn con t rol and those made by branches or sub s id ia r ies in Cameroon of f o r e i gn compan ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a g u a r a n t ee f r om the Cameroonian Governmen t, and (2) shares s im i l ar to securities whose issue, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale in Cameroon has prev ious ly been au tho r i z ed. Borrowing abroad by physical or j u r i d i c al persons, whether public or private persons, whose no rmal resi- dence or registered office is in Came roon, or by b ranches or subs id iar ies in Cameroon of j u r i d i c al persons whose registered office is ab road, requ i res pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in i s t er of F inance and mu st s u b s e q u e n t ly be reported to h im. The f o l l ow i ng a re, howeve r, exempt from this au tho r iza t ion, and requ i re on ly a report ex post: (1) loans directly connec ted w i th the r end e r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms m e n t i o n ed above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial t r an s a c t ions either between Cameroon and coun t r ies abroad or between fore ign coun t r i e s, in wh ich these pe rsons or f i rms take par t; and (2) loans con t rac ted by registered banks and credit in s t i tu t ion s. Lend ing abroad by phys ical and j u r i d i c al pe rsons, whe ther pub l ic or p r i v a te persons, whose n o rm al resi- dence or registered office is in Came roon, or by b ranches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of j u r i d i c al persons whose registered off ice is ab road, r e q u i r es p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in is ter of F inance and mu st sub s equ en t ly be reported to h im. The f o l l ow i ng are, however, exempt f rom pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i on and a re sub ject o n ly to a report ex post: (1) loans c o n s t i t u t i ng a d i rect i n v e s tm e nt abroad for which prior approval has been ob ta ined, as indicated above; (2) loans d i r e c t ly connec ted w i th the render ing of services ab road by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial transactions e i ther between Cameroon and coun t r ies abroad or between fo r e ign coun t r i e s, in w h i ch these persons or firms take part; and ( 3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the m a tu r i ty does not exceed two years and the ra te of in te rest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promu lga ted in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes f o ur categories of fiscal and other bene f i ts which may be gran ted to bo th fo re ign and domestic firms und e r t ak ing approved new indu s t r i al or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and du r a- tion of the benefits va ry d ep end ing on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps imp l em ent the economic and social development p lan, and its impor- tance to na t ional economic grow th. Category A pe rm i ts ma in ly du ty - f ree en t ry of cap i tal goods and raw ma te- rials required for m a n u f a c t u r i ng and processing. U n d er Category B, firms may be en t i t led to the b en e f i ts of Category A and also to exemp t ion for 5 years f rom the tax on indus tr ial and commercial profits and f rom va r i- ous other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "es tab l ishment agreement" with the Government, under which special cond i t ions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are de term ined. CAMEROON N o rm a l l y, an "e s tab l i shment ag reemen t" is va l id for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and finan- cial guarantees gran ted to the company, inc lud ing the a s su rance of s tab le cond i t ions for f inanc ial t r an s f e rs and m a rk e t ing of goods. Category D grants to firms mak ing inves tmen ts of pa r t icu lar s ign if icance to the na t ional economy the bene f i ts of Category C, as we ll as a g u a r a n- tee of s t a b i l i ty of t a x a t i on for up to 25 years. A decree of Augu st 30, 1973 provides that at least one th i rd of the sha re cap i tal of each b a n k i ng or i n s u r a n ce i n s t i t u t i on shou ld be he ld by the pub l ic sector and t h at i ts head- qua r te rs should be in Cameroon. This decree also requ i res banks w i th fore ign m a jo r i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion to s u bm it to the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es i n f o rm a t i on on a ll t h e ir c u r r e nt t ran sac t ions abroad and to ob ta in pr ior approval for any changes in the s t ruc tu re of the ir equ i ty ho ld ing s. Gold Res iden ts are free to hold, acqu i re, and dispose of gold jewe lry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the D i r e c to r a te of M ines to hold gold in any o ther f o rm. Such approval is n o rm a l ly given on ly to indu s t r i al users, i n c l u d i ng jewelers. New ly m ined gold mu st be declared to the D irec tora te of M ines, wh ich au tho r i z es e i ther i ts expo r t a t ion or i ts sa le to domes t ic i n d u s t r i al users; exports are made on ly to France. Impor ts and exports of gold requ i re p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the D i rec to ra te of M in es and the M i n i s t er of F in an c e, wh i ch is se ldom gran ted for impor ts. Exempt f rom th is requ i rement are ( 1) impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry a u t h o r i t i e s, and (2) impo r ts and expor ts of m a n u f a c- tu red ar t ic les c o n t a i n i ng a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated a r t i c l e s ). Both licensed and exempt im p o r ts of gold are sub ject to cu s toms d e c l a r a t i o n. Changes during 1976 January 1. The t a r i ff preferences accorded to im p o r ts f r om EEC coun t r i es were e l im i n a t ed f r om the common ex te rnal customs tar iff of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Un ion. January 7. All impo r ts of woven tex t i les requ i red p r ior au tho r iza t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Economy and P l ann ing. March 75. F rance a g a in suspended its p a r t i c ip a t ion in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r r a n g em e n t; the par i ty between the CFA f r anc and the French f r a nc rema ined unchanged. July 3. Fu r ther impo rt i tems became subject to the add i t ion al import tax; the tax was raised for some other impor ts. July 8. Law No. 76 /9 provided tha t, in p r inc ip le, fo r- eign commerc ial and i n d u s t r i al firms, or a f f i l ia tes of such firms, opera t ing in Cameroon must set up the ir head- qu a r t e rs and accoun ts in Cameroon. August 21. Decree No. 76/363 l i f t ed the p r o h i b i t i on on se t t lemen ts w i th Portugal. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.822021 g ram of fine gold per Canad ian Dollar. Since May 31, 1970, however, the au tho r i t ies have not m a in t a in ed the exchange ra te of the Canad ian dollar within ma rg ins. The closing f ree ma rket rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1976 was Can$ 1.0088 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on fo r e ign paymen ts other than certain restrictions on payments to Rhodesia. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. In imp lemen ta t ion of UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (68) of May 29, 1968, paymen ts and t r an s f e rs to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Paymen ts and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for certain drugs, a few a g r i c u l t u r al items, cer ta in tex t i le produc ts and clothing, certain endangered species of f a u na and flora, n a tu r al gas, and ma te r ial and equ ipment for the produc- tion or use of a tom ic energy. For some of the agricul- t u r al i tems, such as cer ta in d a i ry products, licenses are genera l ly not be ing issued. Commercial imports of cer- t a in commod i t ies f r om any source are generally pro- hibited; these inc lude oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand a i rc ra f t, cer ta in periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The su r render of the proceeds f rom exports is not requ ired, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supp ly reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. This includes the export of crude petroleum, certain petroleum prod- ucts, and na tu ral gas, most of which is sold to the U n i t ed States. For security reasons, the export of cer- tain specified commodities to all destinations except the Un i ted States is und er export control. All exports to A lban ia, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Republic and East Ber l in, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, R om a n i a, Viet N am, and the U.S.S.R. are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the au thor i ty of a general export permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical supplies, news ma te r ia l, educa t ional equ ipment and materials for use in educational ins t i tu t ions, and books, magazines, and periodicals. 106 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requ i remen ts are imposed on exchange paymen ts fo r, or exchange receipts f rom, invisibles. However, t rave le rs may not take out any Canad ian silver coins m in ted in or prior to 1968. Capital No exchange con trol requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Apa rt f r om res tr ic t ions in certain specific sectors such as b a n k i n g, in su rance, and u r a n i um, inwa rd direct invest- ment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. It stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canad ian business en te rp r i se by persons other th an Cana- d ian s, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not prev ious ly established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unre la ted to their existing business in Canada, w i ll be allowed if it is assessed that such inves tmen ts are of s ign if icant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the rev iew of proposed takeove rs and the sc reen ing of the establishment of new businesses. There are no con- t ro ls over ou twa rd direct inves tmen t, nor over inwa rd or ou tward portfolio investment. Gold Res iden ts may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad. Exports of gold are subject to the fo l low ing cond i t ions: ( 1) exports to A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rom an i a, Viet N am, and the U.S.S.R. are included among those exports subject to control and require a license f r om the Depar tment of Indus t ry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold of U.S. origin may only be re-exported f r om Canada when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Com- merce under the au thor i ty of the Export and Import Permits Act; and (3) movements of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles con ta in ing m inor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of Can$100 was issued on June 1, 1976. Changes during 1976 January 1. The quota on crude oil exports to the United States was reduced f rom 700,000 barrels a day to 510,000 barrels a day. Further reductions in these quotas occurred dur ing the remainder of 1976; at the beg inn ing of 1977 the quota was set at 305,000 barrels a day. Moreover, export taxes on crude oil and petro- leum products continued to be adjusted in response to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution changes in oil prices at home and abroad; the export tax on crude oil was reduced f rom Can$4.50 a barrel at the b e g i n n i ng of 1976 to Can$3 .75 by year-end. February 26. The Government announced its deci- sion not to proceed w i th the proposed special levy on excess prof i ts derived f rom exports, as part of the an t i- in f la t ion program of October 1975. However, the Gov- e rnment wou ld mon i tor deve lopmen ts for signs of d ive r- sion of goods to export ma rke ts at the expense of adequa te domes t ic s u p p l y. Also, the A n t i - I n f l a t i on Board would m a i n t a in su rv e i l l an ce over the prof i ts of expo r t ing f irms and the way in wh ich they were re inves ted. April 1. The global quota for cheese established under the Export and Impo rt Pe rm i ts Act in con jun c t ion w i th the Canad ian supp ly m a n a g em e nt p rog ram for m a n u f a c- t u r i ng m i lk was conve r ted to a d a i ry year bas is. The quota established for Ap r il 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977 was 50 m i l l i on pounds. April 15. Measures were in t roduced u n d er GATT Ar t ic le X IX a imed at p ro tec t ing the domes t ic c l o t h i ng and y a rn i n d u s t r i e s, n am e ly ( 1) a g lobal impo rt quo ta, w i th re troac t ive e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, to be m a i n t a i n ed for three years on 100 per cent ac ry l ic wors ted spun ya rn w i t h in a spec if ied price range, and (2) ex tens ion up to 1978 of the g lobal impo rt quo ta on men's and boys' shirts. May 25. U n d er the budget proposa ls the t em p o r a ry t a r i ff cuts f irst in t rodu c ed in Feb rua ry 1973 on impo r ts valued at C a n $ 1 .5 b i l l ion were ex tended to J u ne 30, 1977. June 1. A legal tender gold co in w i th a face va lue of Can$100 was issued. June 10. It was announ c ed that the export pr ice of n a t u r al gas wou ld be ra ised in two s tages f r om Can$1 .60 per thousand cub ic feet to Can$1 .80 on September 10, 1976 and to C a n $ 1 . 94 on J a n u a ry 1, 1977. CANADA July 1. A three-year global import quota was imposed on work gloves va lued at Can$7.00 a dozen or less. July 8. A su r tax effective for six mon ths was imposed on imports of textured polyester filament yarns; the su r tax wou ld be equal to the d i f fe rence between the export price of these impor ts and co r re spond ing u n it va lues set by the Canad ian Gov e rnm en t. July 29. Impor ts of w i n t er outerwear f rom the Peo- ple's Repub l ic of Ch in a, the Repub l ic of Ch in a, Hong Kong, Korea, and the Ph i l ipp in es were suspended pend- ing con su l ta t ions w i th these expo r t ing countries. October 8. Nego t ia t ions were completed w i th the Repub l ic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, Korea, and the Ph i l ip- pines on r e s t r a i n i ng expor ts of w in t er ou terwear. October 8. In te r im quo ta l im i ts were in t roduced on impo r ts of d o u b l e - k n it fab r ics f rom a ll coun t r ies. October 17. A global quota for imports of beef and veal was es tab l ished for the period October 17 to Decem- ber 31. The am o u nt of the quo ta was set at 17.5 m i l l ion pounds, d iv ided on a f ixed coun t ry - sha re basis am o ng A u s t r a l i a, New Zea land, and the Un i ted States. October 18. Impo rt l icen s ing r equ i r em en ts u n d er the Impo rt Con t rol List were ex tended for s u r v e i l l a n ce pur- poses to impo r ts of worsted fab r ics f r om all except eight spec if ied coun t r ies, n am e ly, France, the Federal Repub- lic of G e rm a n y, Italy, Japan, the Ne ther lands, Switzer- l a n d, the U n i t ed K ingdom, and the Un i ted States. November 29. A global im p o rt quo ta was announced for 1977 w i th respect to impo r ts of a range of c lo th ing items; such impor ts in 1977 wou ld be l im i ted to the level in 1975. December 23. The sur tax on textured polyester fila- m ent y a rn was l i f ted. December 24. The Gove rnment a n n o u n c ed quotas for 1977 on impo r ts of beef and veal f r om the Un i ted States, A u s t r a l i a, and New Zea land. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Cape Verde, the Cape Verde Escudo, which is at par with the Portuguese escudo. The day-to- day rates for foreign currencies are fixed on the basis of the rates quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the previous day. The rates of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were C.V. Esc 31.42 buying, and C.V. Esc 31.98 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the cen- tral bank. All imports, exports, and re-exports are sub- ject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through authorized dealers, including the sur- render of foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized deal- ers may hold foreign exchange up to a max imum amount decided by the DRECC. Foreign exchange in excess of this amount must be surrendered to the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has a bilateral payments agreement with Guinea-Bissau. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transac- tions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses are issued by the National Directorate of Commerce in the Min- istry of Economy and are generally valid for 180 days. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the licenses are approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of essential commodi- ties such as foodstuffs, petroleum products, and construc- tion materials. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for children less than 15 years o ld ). When traveling accom- panied by his fam i ly, a Cape Verde resident may take out in foreign currency up to C.V. Esc 6,000 plus C.V. Esc 4,000 for each member less than 15 years old but the total t ran s fer for each fam i ly should not exceed C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a max imum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country and the rea f ter C.V. Esc 5,000 a mon th. The equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business tr ip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical treatment. These latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Trans- fers by fore igners who are technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contract. Requests by other fore igners are exam ined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is restricted to C.V. Esc 500 a person. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of fore ign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for transac- tions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months f rom the date of issuance of the license. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but imported capital may be re-exported w i thout limitation. The export of resident- owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coins or bars requires prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authoriza- tion. Transfers for tourism are limited to a max imum of 1 Capo Verde is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Changes during 1976 July 26. A bilateral payments agreement with Guinea- Bissau entered into force. The swing limit was set at US$250,000. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or cen tral rate for the currency of the Central A f r ican Empire has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in ta ined at the ra te of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transac t ions in French f ranc s, the in terven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque des Etats de FAfr ique Centrale (BEAC) and commerc ial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for fore ign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cu r rency concerned. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the Cen- tral Afr ican Empire's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun tr ies may be made f ree ly. All other countries, except the Cen tral A f r ican Emp ire itself, are considered fore ign countries, and in pr inc ip le finan- cial relations only w i th fore ign countries are subject to exchange control. All remittances to non-BEAC countries are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent; the commission is applicable also to the purchase of banknotes. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts hav ing a direct or ind i rect bea r ing on the finances of the State require the pr ior app roval of the Minister of Finance (the Depu ty Pr ime M in is ter in charge of the Public Treasury and F inance ), who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrow ing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of fore ign securi- ties in the Central A f r ican Empire, and inward and out- ward direct investment. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval au thor i ty to the BEAC,2 to the au thor ized banks, and to the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. All exchange transactions relating to fore ign countries must be effected 1The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Cen tra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 The au thor i ty delegated to the BEAC relates to ( 1) the control over the ex ternal position of the banks, (2) the g r a n t i ng of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repa tr ia t ion of net export proceeds. through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is try of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the BEAC. Prescription of Currency The Central A f r ican Empire is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury; settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs/'' Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresi- dent accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may be credited f ree ly to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are suspended. The import f rom all countries of a few commodities also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foodstuffs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not orig- ina t ing in a member country of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC ), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of f i rea rms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports f rom EEC countries ( the original member states) also are free f rom quantitative restrictions. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing w i th in the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import :5 There is an inoperative bilateral paymen ts a r rangement w i th the Sudan. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists t rave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in fore ign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that rema ins af ter re tu rn to the Central A f r ican Emp ire must be sur- rendered. For business travel to fo re ign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 100,000 a t r ip, for travel to cer ta in listed coun tr ies; the alloca- tion is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a t r ip, for business travel to any other fore ign coun t ry; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in fore ign banknotes. The t ran s fer of the entire net salary of a fo re igner wo rk ing in the Cen tral A f r ican Empire is permitted upon presen ta t ion of the appropr ia te pay voucher, pro- vided that the t ran s fer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Travelers going to fo re ign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out fo re ign currency and other fore ign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into fo re ign cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, mea t, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. no Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month f rom the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless spe- cial authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets must be collected w i th in a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movemen ts between the Central A f r ican Empire and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange control; capital trans- fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun tr ies are pe rm i t ted f ree ly. All fo re ign bor- row ing by the Gove rnment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all fo re ign bo r row ing w i th a gov- e rnment gua ran tee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget w i th in the M in is try of Finance. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing and lend ing abroad, over inward and ou twa rd d irect inves tmen t, and over the issuing, adver- t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in the Central A f r ican Emp ire; these controls relate to the t ran sac t ions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the excep t ion of those over the sale or in troduc t ion of fo re ign securities in the Cen tral A f r i c an Empire, the con trol measures do not apply to relations with France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera t ions Account. Direct inve s tmen ts a b r o a d4 requ i re the pr ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of 4 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of fo re ign compa- nies th at are d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in the Central A f r i c an Em p i re and those m ade by b ranches or sub s id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in the Cen tral A f r i c an Empire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a capital increase r e su l t ing from r e inv e s tm ent of und is- t r ibu ted p ro f i t s; the f u ll or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of such inves tmen ts also requ i res the prior app roval of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce un l e ss the op e r a t ion i n v o l v es the re l inqu ish ing of a p a r t i c ip a t ion t h at had p r e v i o u s ly been approved as c o n s t i t u t i ng the m a k i ng of a d i r e ct i n v e s t- ment abroad. Foreign d irect i n v e s tm e n ts in the C e n t r al A f r i c an E m p i r e5 mu st be dec la red to the M i n i s t er of Finance unless they take the fo rm of a cap i tal increase re su l t ing f r om r e i n v e s tm e nt of u n d i s t r i b u t ed p ro f i t s; the Minister has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the d e c l a r a t ion d u r i ng w h i ch he may request the post- ponement of the projects subm i t t ed to h im. The f u ll or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n ts in t he C e n t r al A f r ican Emp i re mu st also be dec la red to the M i n i s t e r, un less the o p e r a t i on i n v o l v es the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a p a r t i c ip a t ion that had p r ev iou s ly been app roved as c o n s t i t u t i ng t he m a k i ng of a d i r e ct i n v e s tm e nt in t he Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i r e. Bo th t he m a k i ng a nd t he l i q u i d a t i on of d i rect i n v e s tm e n t s, w h e t h er these a re Cen- tral A f r i c an Em p i re i n v e s tm e n ts ab road or fo re ign inv e s tm en ts in t he C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i r e, m u st be reported to the M i n i s t er w i t h in 20 d a ys f o l l o w i ng each ope ra t ion. Direct i n v e s tm e n ts a re d e f i n ed as i n v e s tm e n ts im p l y i ng con t rol of a c om p a ny or e n t e r p r i s e. Me re p a r t i c i p a t i on is not con s ide red as d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n t, p ro- vided t h at it does not exceed 20 per c ent in the c a p i t al of a c om p a ny whose sha res are quo t ed on a s tock exchange. The i s s u i n g, a d v e r t i s i n g, or o f f e r i ng for sa le of f o r- eign s e cu r i t i es in t he C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i re r e q u i r es pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e. E x em pt f rom a u t h o r i z a t i o n, howeve r, a re o p e r a t i o ns in conn e c- tion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a g u a r a n t ee f r om t he Cen tral A f r i c an Em p i re G o v e r nm e nt a nd ( 2) sh a r es s im i lar to s e c u r i t i es whose i s s u i n g, a d v e r t i s i n g, or o f f e r- ing for sa le in the C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i re h as p r ev i- ously been au tho r ized. Bo r row ing ab road by phy s i c al or j u r i d i c al persons, whether public or p r iva te persons, whose no rm al resi- dence or reg i s te red o f f ice is in the C e n t r al A f r i c an Empire, or by branches or subs id iar ies in the Cen tral A f r i c an Em p i re of j u r i d i c al pe r sons whose r eg i s t e r ed office is ab road, r e q u i r es p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in i s ter of F in an c e. The f o l l ow i ng a re, howeve r, ex empt f rom th is a u t h o r i z a t i o n: ( 1) l o a ns c o n s t i t u t i ng a d i r e ct inve s tment ab road for w h i ch p r ior a p p r o v al h as been ob ta ined, as i n d i c a t ed above; (2) l o a ns d i r e c t ly con- nected w i th the r e n d e r i ng of se rv ices ab road by the persons or f i rms m e n t i o n ed above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commerc ial t r an s a c t ions e i t h er be tween the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re and c o u n t r i es ab road or be tween fo r- CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE e ign coun t r ies, in wh ich these persons or firms take par t; ( 3) loans contracted by registered bank s; and (4) loans o ther t h an those men t ioned above, wh en the total am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one borrower. The con t r a c t ing of loans re fe r red to u n d er (4) t h at a re f r ee of a u t h o- r i z a t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the O f f ice of Fore ign F i n a n c i al R e l a t ions w i t h in 20 days of the op e r a t ion, unless the total o u t s t a n d i ng am o u nt of a ll loans con t rac ted abroad by the bo r rower is CFAF 500,000 or less. L e n d i ng abroad by p h y s i c al or j u r i d i c al persons, whose no rm al residence or registered office is in the C e n t r al A f r i c an Emp i r e, or by b r an ch es or subs id ia r ies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re of j u r i d i c al persons whose reg is tered off ice is ab ro ad, r equ i r es p r ior au tho- r i z a t ion by the M i n i s t er of F inance. The f o l l ow i ng are, howeve r, e x em pt f r om th is a u t h o r i z a t i o n: ( 1) loans g ran ted by registered banks and (2) o ther loans when the to t al am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these l o a ns does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one l e n d e r. The m a k- ing of lo ans t h at a re f r ee of a u t h o r i z a t i o n, and each r e p a ym e nt th e r eon, mu st be repo r ted to the Office of Fo re ign F i n a n c i al R e l a t ions w i t h in 20 days of the o p e r a t i on except when the am o u nt of the loan g ran ted ab road by the l end er is less th an CFAF 500,000. U n d er Law No. 62/355 of F eb ru a ry 19, 1963 fas am end ed by O r d i n a n ce No. 69 /47 of September 2, 1969) and UD EAC Dec is ion No. 18 /65 of December 14, 1965, i n d u s t r i a l, t o u r i s t, a g r i c u l t u r a l, a nd m i n i ng en te r- p r i s es ( b o th f o r e i gn and d om e s t i c) es tab l ished in the C en t r al A f r i c an Em p i re a re g r a n t e d, u n d er ce r ta in con- d i t i o n s, reduced d u t i es and taxes on the impo rt of speci- f ied e q u i pm e n t; in a d d i t i o n, ce r ta in en te rp r ises receive e x em p t i on f r om d i rect taxes on spec if ied in com e. The law also prov ides for three categories of p re fe r- e n t i al t r e a tm e nt in accordance w i th wh ich fiscal and other p r iv i leges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in new en t e rp r i s es or in the expan s ion of ex is t ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Reque s ts for app roval for p r e f e r en t i al t rea tment m u st be s u bm i t t ed to the M i n i s t er of I n d u s t r y, who is the C h a i rm an of the Inv e s tm ent Comm i s s ion wh ich con s id e rs the a p p l i c a t i o n. If a pos i t ive decision has been g iven by the Comm i s s ion, the proposed au tho r i z a t ion is s u bm i t t ed to the Coun c il of M in i s te r s. P r e f e r en t i al t r e a tm e n ts A and C are g ran ted by decree issued by the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r en t i al t r e a tm ent B is g r a n t ed by an Act of the Board of Directors of the f o rm er E q u a t o r i al Cus toms U n i on upon the recom- m e n d a t i on of the Counc il of M in is ters. Gold 5 I n c l u d i ng those m a de by c om p a n i es in t he C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i re that a re d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er f o r e i gn c o n t r ol a nd those m a de by branches or s u b s i d i a r i es in the C en t r al A f r i c an Em p i re of fo r e ign companies. Re s iden ts are f r ee to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any f o rm in the Cen t ral A f r ican Emp i re. Impor ts and exports of gold f r om or to any other coun try requ ire 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain com- panies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Dia- monds. Changes during 1976 January 1. The tariff preferences accorded to imports from EEC countries were eliminated f rom the common external customs tariff of the UDEAC. January 1. The export tax on diamonds was modified by Ordinances Nos. 75/094 and 75/095 of Decem- ber 31, 1975. March 15. The parity between the CFA franc and the French f r anc remained unchanged when France suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par v a lue or c en t r al ra te for the cu r r en cy of Chad has been established w i th the F u n d. The u n it of cu r- rency is the CFA F ranc ,1 wh ich is o f f i c i a l ly m a i n t a i n ed at the ra te of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c. Exchange t ran sac t ions in French f r a n c s, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency, be tween the B anque des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique Cen t ra le (BEAC) and comme rc ial b anks take place at the ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, f r ee of comm iss ion. Exchange rates for fo r e ign cu r renc ies are based on the f ixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Par is exchange m a r k et ra te for the cu r rency conce rned, and in c lude a comm iss ion. W i th the excep t ion of those r e l a t i ng to go ld, Chad's exchange con t rol mea su res do not app ly to ( 1) France ( and i ts Overseas D e p a r tm e n ts and Terr i tor ies, except the French Te r r i to ry of the A f a rs and the I s sa s) and Monaco; and (2) a ll o ther coun t r i es whose b ank of issue is l inked w i th the F rench T r e a su ry by an Opera- tions Account (B e n i n, Came roon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N ige r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll p a ym e n ts to these coun t r ies may be made f ree ly. A ll other coun t r i e s, except Chad i t se l f, are considered fo r e ign coun t r ie s, and in p r in c ip l e, f inanc ial re la t ions on ly w i th f o r e i gn coun t r i es a re sub ject to exchange con t ro l. A comm iss ion of 0.25 per cent is lev ied on all c ap i t al t ran s fe rs to coun t r ies that are not membe rs of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Administration of Control The Off ice of the M in i s t er of F inance, Bu i ld ing s, and Supply superv ises bo r row ing and l e n d i ng ab road, the issuing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo re ign securi- ties in Chad, and inw a rd and ou twa rd d irect i n v e s tm e n t; it also issues impo rt and export au tho r iza t ions for gold. Exchange control is also adm in i s t e r ed by the M in i s t er of Finance, who has delegated his app roval au tho r i ty in part to the au tho r ized bank s. A ll exchange t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign coun t r ies must be effec ted th rough authorized banks. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M i n i s t ry of Economy, P lann ing, and T ranspo r ta t ion. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Opera t ions Account coun t ry of the French Franc A rea, since the BEAC m a in t a ins an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury; se t t lemen ts w i th France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the o ther Opera- 1The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in Chad is issued by the B a n q ue des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique Cen tra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i r e, People's R e p u b l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. tions Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all o ther coun t r i es a re u su a l ly made through correspondent b anks in France in any of the currenc ies of those coun- t r ies or in French f r a n cs th rough Foreign Accoun ts in F rancs. Nonresident Accounts The r egu l a t ions p e r t a in ing to non re s ident accoun ts are based on those app l ied in France. BEAC b ankno t es may be c red i ted f r e e ly to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs m a i n- t a in ed by the fo r e ign correspondents of au tho r ized bank s, prov ided t h at the notes are ma i led d irect to the BEAC agency in Chad by the co r respondent banks conce rned. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca a re pro- h ib i ted. Impo r ts f r om a ll sources of whea t, wheat f lour, and sugar requ ire licenses. All other impor ts f rom coun- t r ies in the French F ranc Area and f r om EEC coun tr ies ( the o r i g i n al member s ta tes) other than France may be made f ree ly. A ll impo r ts f rom non-EEC countries ou t- side the French F ranc Area are sub ject to l i c en s ing in accordance w i th an a n n u al impo rt p rog ram. This pro- g ram and the amount of fo r e ign exchange requ i red to im p l em e nt it are de term ined by the M in i s ter of State in Charge of the Economy, P l ann ing, and Transpor ta- t ion on the basis of proposals d rawn up by the Com- m i t tee on Impor ts. The impo rt p rog ram con ta ins global quotas for im p o r ts f r om non-EEC coun tr ies outside the French F ranc Area and a special quo ta for impo r ts of cotton tex t i les f r om coun t r ies w i th abno rm al compe t i t ive adv an- tages. In a d d i t i o n, the p rog ram con ta ins global quo tas for impo r ts of whea t, wheat f lour, and sugar f r om EEC coun t r ie s, coun t r ies in the French Franc Area, as we ll as other coun tr ies. Specified impo r ts f rom ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies not be long ing to the French Franc Area ( the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic, N ige r ia, and the Sud an) up to a va lue of CFAF 3 m i l l ion a year in each direction for a single impo r ter may be made t h r o u gh compensa t ion transac- tions. All impo rt t ransac t ions va lued at CFAF 100,000 or more and re la t ing to fo r e ign coun tr ies must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized b a n k. Import licenses en t i t le impor t- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are submitted to the au tho r ized bank. Forward cover for impo r ts f rom fo re ign countries is on ly pe rm i t ted for specified commodities and requires 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD the p r i or a p p r o v al of the Office of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e, B u i l d i n g s, a nd S u p p l y. ceeds mu st be c o l l e c t e d, a nd su r r end e r ed if r e c e i v ed in a f o r e i gn c u r r e n c y, w i t h in two mon ths of the due da te. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles P a ym e n ts f or inv i s i b l es to F r a n ce (as de f ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea are p e rm i t t ed f ree ly; those to o ther coun t r i es are subject to a p p r o v a l. F or m a ny types of p aym ent the a p p r o v al a u t h o r i ty has been de lega ted to a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. P a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es r e l a t ed to t rade are p e rm i t t ed f ree ly w h en the ba s ic t rade t ran sac­ t i on has been a p p r o v ed or does not r e q u i re a u t h o r i z a­ t i o n. T r a n s f e rs of i n c ome a c c r u i ng to non re s iden ts in the f o rm of p ro f i ts, d i v i d e n d s, a nd roy a l t i es are a lso p e rm i t t ed f ree ly w h en b o na fide. Some cu r r ent pay­ men ts, how ev e r, m ay be subject to d e l ay. F or tou r i st t r a v e l, res iden ts t r a v e l i ng to coun t r i es o ther th an F r a n ce (as de f ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the o th er O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es of the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea m ay o b t a in an exchange a l l o c a t i on of an am o u nt equ iv a l ent to C F AF 175 ,000 a p e r son a t r i p, for any n um b er of t r ips a y e a r; any f o r e i gn exchange r em a i n i ng after r e t u rn to C h ad mu st be su r r end e r ed. F or business t r a v el to f o r e i gn coun t r i e s, there is a spe­ c i al a l l o c a t i on of the equ iv a l ent of up to C F AF 4 0 0 , 0 00 a pe r son a t r i p; the Off ice of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e, B u i l d i n g s, a nd S u p p ly m ay issue e x c e p t i o n al a l l o c a t i o ns in excess of C F AF 4 0 0 , 0 0 0. T o u r i st a nd business t r a v el a l l o c a t i o ns m ay not be c om b i n e d. T r a v e l e rs g o i ng to fo r e ign coun t r i es m ay take out up to a m a x i m um of C F AF 10 ,000 in BE AC bankno te s. T r a v e l e rs to o ther coun t r i es m ay take out any amount in B E AC b ankno t e s. A res ident going a b r o ad for less th an 24 hou rs m ay not take out m o re th an C F AF 5 ,000 in C FA b ankno t e s. N o n r e s i d e nt t rave le rs m ay take out f o r e i gn bankno tes a nd co ins up to the am o u nt d e c l a r ed by t h em on en t ry, o r, if no d e c l a r a t i on has been m ad e, up to the equ iv a l ent of C F AF 100 ,000; they m ay r e conv e rt in to f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n cy B E AC bankno tes up to C F AF 2 5 , 0 00 that have been o b t a i n ed f r om the sale of f o r e i gn means of pay­ ments that we re d e c l a r ed u p on en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds E x p o r ts to R h o d e s ia and S o u th A f r i ca are p r o h i b i t e d. A ll expo r ts to n o n - E EC coun t r i es ou t s ide the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea r equ i re l icenses. Spec i f ied expo r ts to the L i b y an A r ab R e p u b l i c, N i g e r i a, a nd the S u d an m ay be made t h r o u gh c om p e n s a t i on t ran sac t ion s. E x p o r ts of c o t t on are the m o n o p o ly of the Soc ie te C o t o n n i e re du T c h ad (C O T O N T C H A D ). E x p o rt t ran sac t ions r e l a t i ng to f o r e i gn coun t r i es must be d om i c i l ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b ank w h en th e ir v a lue exceeds C F AF 5 0 , 0 0 0. E x p o rt proceeds r e c e iv ed in c u r­ renc ies o ther t h an those of F r a n ce or an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t ry must be su r r end e r ed. E x p o rt p roceeds n o rm a l ly mu st be r e c e iv ed w i t h in 180 days after the a r r i v al of the c omm o d i t i es at t h e ir d e s t i n a t i o n. T he p r o­ 1 14 P ro c e eds f r om t ran sac t ions in i n v i s i b l es w i th F r a n ce (as de f ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea m ay be r e t a in ed. A ll amoun ts due f r om res iden ts of o ther c o u n­ tries in respect of serv ices a nd a ll i n c ome e a rn ed in those coun t r i es f r om f o r e i gn assets must be c o l l e c t ed a n d, if r e c e iv ed in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c y, su r r end e r ed w i t h in two mon ths of the due da te. R e s i d e nt a nd non r e s id ent t rave le rs m ay b r i ng in any am o u nt of b ankno t es a nd co ins issued by the B E A C, the B a nk of F r a n c e, or any o ther b a nk of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt w i th the F r e n ch T r e a s u r y, as w e ll as any am o u nt of f o r e i gn bankno tes a nd co ins (except g o ld c o i n s) a nd o ther f o r e i gn means of p a ym e n t. Capital C a p i t al movemen ts be tween C h ad a nd F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea are free of exchange c o n t r o l; c a p i t al transfers to a ll o ther coun t r i es r e q u i re exchange c o n t r ol a p p r o v al a nd are r e s t r i c t ed, but c a p i t al rece ip ts f r om s u ch coun t r i es are p e rm i t t ed f ree ly. A ll fo r e ign secu r i t ies, fo r e ign c u r r e n c y, a nd t i t les em b o d y i ng c l a ims on f o r e i gn coun t r i es or non re s iden ts that are h e ld in C h ad by res iden ts or non res iden ts mu st be d epo s i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed b anks in C h a d. A c omm i s s i on of 0 .25 per cent is l e v i ed on c a p i t al transfers to f o r e i gn c o u n­ tr ies, except those made for the a c count of the T r e a s u r y. S p e c i al c o n t r o ls ( a d d i t i o n al to any exchange c o n t r ol r equ i r em en ts that m ay be a p p l i c a b le or suspended i n s o­ far as they w o u ld be c o n t r a ry to the exchange c o n t r ol r egu l a t ion s) are m a i n t a i n ed ov er b o r r o w i ng a nd l e n d i ng a b r o a d, ov er i n w a rd a nd o u tw a rd d i r e ct inve s tmen t, a nd ov er the i s su ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies in C h a d; these c o n t r o ls re la te to the t ran sac t ions themse lves, not to paymen ts or rece ip t s. W i th the e x c e p t i on of those ov er the sale or i n t r o d u c t i on of fo r e ign secu r i t ies in C h a d, the c o n t r ol measures do not a p p ly to r e l a t ions w i th F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, and those o ther coun t r i es who se b ank of issue is l i n k ed w i th the F r e n ch T r e a s u ry by an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u n t. D i r e ct inves tmen ts a b r o ad 2 r equ i re the p r i or a p p r o v al of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e, B u i l d i n g s, and S u p p ly unless they take the f o rm of a c a p i t al inc rease r e s u l t i ng f r om re inve s tment of u n d i s t r i b u t ed prof i ts; the f u ll or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of s u ch inves tmen ts a lso requ i res the p r i or a p p r o v al of the M i n i s t e r, unless the o p e r a t i on i n v o l v es the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a p a r t i c i p a t i on that h ad p r e v i o u s ly been a p p r o v ed as c o n s t i t u t i ng the m a k i ng of a d i r e ct 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment abroad. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Chad ;I require prior declaration to the M in is ter of Finance, Buildings, and Supply unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resu l t ing f rom re inves tment of und is- tributed profits; the M in i s t er has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion d u r i ng wh ich he may request the pos tponement of the p ro jec ts subm i t ted to him. The f u ll or pa r t ial l i q u i d a t i on of d i rect i n v e s tm e n ts in Chad must also be declared to the M in i s t e r, un less the ope ra t ion invo lves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a pa r t ic ipa- tion that had prev ious ly been approved as c o n s t i t u t i ng the mak ing of a d irect inve s tment in Chad. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Chad ian inves tmen ts abroad or fore ign invest- ments in Chad, must be reported to the M in i s t er w i t h in 20 days fo l low ing each ope ra t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as inves tmen ts im p l y i ng control of a com- pany or en te rp r i se. Mere p a r t i c i p a t i on is not cons ide red as direct i n v e s tm e n t, p rov ided t h at it does not exceed 20 per cent of the cap i tal of a c om p a ny whose sha res are quo ted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of f o r e i gn securities in Chad requ i res p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the Minister of F inance, B u i l d i n g s, and Supp ly. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, howeve r, a re ope ra t ions in connec- tion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f r om the Chadian Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i l ar to securities whose issue, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale in Chad has previously been au thor ized. Bo r row ing abroad by phys ical or j u r i d i c al persons, whe ther pub l ic or p r iv a te persons, whose n o rm al res i- dence or reg is tered off ice is in Chad, or by b r an ch es or subs id ia r ies in Chad of j u r i d i c al persons whose reg is- tered office is ab road, r equ i r es p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in i s ter of F in an c e, B u i l d i n g s, and Supp ly. The fo l low ing are, howeve r, exempt f r om th is a u t h o r i z a t i o n: (1) loans c o n s t i t u t i ng a d i rect i n v e s tm e nt abroad for which prior approval has been o b t a i n e d, as ind i c a t ed above; (2) loans d i rec t ly connected w i th the r e n d e r i ng of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial t ransac t ions either between Chad and coun t r ies abroad or between fore ign c o u n t r i e s, in wh i ch these persons or f i rms t a ke par t; (3) loans con t r a c t ed by reg is te red b a n k s; and (4) loans o ther t h an those m e n t i o n ed above, w h en the total am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one bo r rowe r. The con t r a c t- ing of loans r e f e r r ed to u n d er (4) t h at a re f r ee of au tho r iza t ion, and each r e p a ym e nt t h e r e o n, m u st be declared to the M in i s ter w i t h in 20 days of the o p e r a t i o n, unless the total ou t s tand ing am o u nt of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 m i l l i on or less. Lending abroad by physical or j u r i d i c al persons, whether public or p r iva te persons, whose no rm al resi- 3 Inc lud ing those made by comp an i es in Chad t h at a re d i r e c t ly or indirectly und er f o r e i gn control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of f o r e i gn comp an i e s. CHAD dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion; ( 1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The m a k i ng of loans that are f ree of au tho r iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the M i n- ister w i t h in 20 days of the ope ra t ion, un less the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, prov ided, how- ever, that the to tal o u t s t a n d i ng amount of all loans gran ted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. Commerc ial banks mu st m a i n t a in in Chad a specified m i n i m um propor t ion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or fo re ign, is g ran ted, under certain cond i t ions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also p rov ides for three categories of p r e f e r en t i al treat- m e n t, in acco rdance w i th wh ich ce r ta in f iscal and other p r i v i l e g es may be accorded to firms i n v e s t i ng in specified new i n d u s t r i es or in the expan s ion of ex i s t ing ones. Reque s ts for p r e f e r en t i al t rea tment mu st be subm i t ted to the M i n i s t er of State in Charge of the Economy, P l a n n i n g, and T ranspo r ta t ion, who, a f ter e x am i n i ng the documen t s, t r an sm i ts them to the Inves tment Commis- sion. A f ter an op in ion has been given by that Comm is- sion, the project is submitted to the Council of M in is ters. Gold Chad has issued five gold co ins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000 wh ich are legal tende r. Ordi- nance No. 3 / PR /TP of Feb rua ry 10, 1968 conce rn ing nonmon e t a ry gold ( ra t i f ied by Law No. 23 of June 4, 1968 ), in con junc t ion with relevant exchange control regu la t ion s, governs the ho ld ing, sale, impor t, c i rcu la- t ion, export, and processing of gold and d iamonds. Res iden ts who are not producers of gold may not hold unwo rk ed gold un le ss they have ob ta ined an au tho r iza- t ion issued by the Pres ident ac t ing on the adv ice of the M i n i s t er of M ines. Impo r ts and exports of gold, whe ther u nw o r k ed or r e f in ed, r equ i re p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the Off ice of the M in i s t er of F inance, Bu i ld ing s, and Sup- ply and by the D irec tora te of M ines and Geology as we ll as the v isa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt f r om this r equ i r em ent a re ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary au thor i t ies and ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c les ). Exports of unworked gold and of raw d iamonds (as we ll as domestic purchases and sales of bo th) are the monopo ly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Impo r ts, and Exports ( B A V I E ), wh ich is a pr iva te company. Unwo rked gold may be exported only to 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1976 January 1. The tariff preferences accorded to imports from member states of the EEC were eliminated f rom the common external customs tariff of the Central Afr i- can Customs and Economic Union. March 15. The parity between the CFA f r anc and the prench f r anc was maintained unchanged when France suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency is the Ch i lean Peso, wh ich replaced the Chilean Escudo on September 29, 1975. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking ma rke t) and the brokers' marke t. Only the Central Bank of Chile, the Banco del Estado, authorized commercial banks, fo re ign exchange houses, brokers, and other persons or en t i t ies au thor ized by the Cen tral Bank may operate in these marke ts. Transac t ions in both exchange marke ts are for spot delivery on ly. Ou twa rd transfers through both marke ts are controlled. The spot rates of exchange in both m a rk e ts have been iden t ical since August 25, 1975; they are set by the Cen tral Bank and are adjusted periodically. Transac t ions passing through the brokers' ma rket are conf ined to ou twa rd paymen ts in respect of obligations resu l t ing f rom ear l ier capital inflows through that ma rket ( in te res t, dividends, royalties, and amor t iza t ion and r e p a t r i a t i o n ). Exchange rates for the currencies of A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, and U ruguay may be established free ly. On December 31, 1976 the exchange ra te in both spot exchange marke ts was Ch$ 17.42 per US$1. In both markets, commissions of 4/io of 1 per cent were permitted only on sales of exchange; the same commission was per- mitted on purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, where, however, no purchases took place. The Central Bank issues, for sale to the public through the bank ing system, bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dollars (certificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEPACS) which may be used for import paymen ts or other payments eligible for the b ank ing m a rk et rate or as col- lateral for the open ing of import letters of credit. The certificates are va l id for two years f rom the date of issue; w i th in the va l id i ty period, the Central Bank makes available to the owner or holder, upon his request, the sum in U.S. dollars stated on the certificate. On or a f t er their ma tu r i ty date, the certificates are redeemable in pesos at the exchange rate preva i l ing on the due date. Banks and stockbrokers can purchase them f rom the Central Bank, either for the account of their customers or the general public or for their own account, at the banking market exchange rate in effect on the date of issue, plus such prem ium or m inus such discount as may be established by the Central Bank, plus a 2 per m i ll commission charge. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Depar tment of International Transactions of the Central Bank are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Depart- ment have been delegated to local commissions in impor- tant cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Chilean Copper Committee, which is supervised by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela (except those in respect of specified commodities and any imports valued at less than US$1,500 f.o.b. and effected under a simplified registration procedure) must be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Cen tral Bank of Chile and the central bank of the coun t ry concerned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA mu l t i la teral clearing system. Settlements with the Dominican Republic must be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements w i th other countries must take place in specified convertible currencies. Certain paymen ts and t ran s fe rs to South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and imports of military equ ipment f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. There is a List of Prohibited Imports, which contains only a few commodities. A small number of other commodities may be considered as effectively prohibited for private impor ta t ion since, although not on the List of Prohibited Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit require- ment of 10,000 per cent of the c.i.f. value unless they are imported either by public sector agencies or under a special regime, or are on the National List of LAFTA concessions and originate in a LAFTA country; the Executive Comm i t tee of the Central Bank may grant specific exemptions for cer ta in other items that are con- d i t ion a l ly subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit. There is also a list of goods whose impo r ta t ion requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Na t ional Defense. Goods may normally be imported in any amoun t. Prior to shipment, all imports valued at over US$1,500 f.o.b. must be registered with the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications but currently is not exercising this authority. Imports of goods subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, Chiloe, and Pun ta Arenas, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities ( inc lud ing automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone.1 Importers may purchase spot exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved and the shipping documents have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require 1 The import privileges of the "free port" zones are being phased out 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 per cent of the c . i . f. or f.o.b. value, depending on the terms of the transaction, and all imports are subject to a maritime tax of 3 per cent on the freight costs; the registration tax is offset aga inst the applicable import duty. Value-added tax is levied at 20 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. va lue and import du ty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Most are settled in the bank ing market, includ- ing travel expenses. There are established limits for a number of purposes. For tourist travel the allocation (in addition to fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a person a t r ip for travel to neighboring countries and the equivalent of US$3,000 for travel to other coun- tries. Banks may sell up to US$120 a person a mon th for payment of insurance premiums contracted prior to July 23, 1974 in foreign currency w i th na t ional insur- ance companies or with foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. Transfers of other insurance premiums are freely permitted through the commercial banks. Other established limits include those for study abroad. At the end of 1976 the basic allocation for fam i ly remittances remained suspended. Transfers in excess of the l im i ts and those in respect of transac t ions for which no basic allocation has been announced require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Paymen ts for medicines and pharmaceu t ical products may only be made provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. For some invisibles the Central Bank must approve a t ran s fer application (solicitiid de giro): the only documentation required for invisibles that are neither covered by the approval authority delegated to author- ized commercial banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an application fo rm (carta petition) addressed to the Cen- tral Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean na t iona l i ty and residents of foreign na t iona l i ty who have spent more than a year in Chile, when travel- ing to countries outside Latin Amer ica, are required to pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the va lue of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for hum an i t a r i an reasons, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South A f r ica also are proh ib i ted. With the exception of three prohibited items and one item that is subject to quota, all commodities may be freely exported. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank (w i th the Chilean Copper Committee in the case of copper), and the proceeds of exports are subject to surrender require- ments. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase certain foreign exchange proceeds spot f rom exporters. Receipts f rom exports of the large copper m ines, how- 118 ever, must be sold to the Central Bank on a spot basis, either direct or through commercial banks. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered w i th in 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. However, exporters are permitted to repurchase up to 10 per cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered in the bank ing market. There are a number of exemptions, however. These include the receipts of shipping and insurance companies, proceeds f rom certain services ( inc lud ing royalties and copy- right fees) and f rom fam i ly remittances, and generally, income earned abroad. In addition, any remaining fo re ign exchange f rom travel allocations may be retained. Capital Capital inf lows are free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or ref inanc ing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, w i th the exception of the tak ing up of lines of credit with foreign correspondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d i f fe rent arrangemen ts depending on the purpose and type of the inves tmen t. ( 1) Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 of September 7, 1961, stipulates that capital brought into the country in the fo rm of fore ign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor ( ind iv idual or corporation, na t ional or fore ign) has registered w i th the Central Bank. Such capital can only be repatriated w i th the prior approval of the Cen t ral Bank, and not no rma l ly earlier than 24 months a f ter the inflow took place.2 The interest rate must not exceed specified l im i ts. Repa tr ia t ion normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the t ime of registration. (2) Article 15 of the same Decree provides that the Executive Committee of the Central Bank may authorize the use of fo re ign credit w i thout any m i n im um period of repaymen t. The foreign exchange may be used for pay- men ts abroad and is not required to be sold to the Central Bank. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of Ju ly 7, 1974, the Foreign Inves tment Law, establishes a regime both for foreign exchange t rans fe rs and long- term capital investment. Au tho r iza t ion to make a fore ign inves tment in Chile is granted by a Foreign Inves tment Committee through a f ixed - te rm contract con ta in ing unde r tak ings regard ing - Ear l ier r ep a t r i a t ion is p e rm i t t e d, howeve r, if the cap i tal has rema ined in Chile for an average du ra t ion of at least 24 months or when the loans are used to repay outstanding fo re ign cu r rency obligations to the bank ing sys tem for t r an s a c t ions not subject to control by the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the applicable exchange regime, the w i thdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits, and taxes. The contracts norma l ly are for 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years in special cases. Any foreign credits involved must be authorized by, or registered w i th, the Central Bank. Foreign capital which entered Chile prior to the promu lga t ion of Decree-Law No. 600 con- tinues to be subject to the regu la t ions p reva i l ing on the date of entry but had to be registered w i th the Foreign Investment Committee w i th in a year f rom its promu lga- tion. Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement is no longer considered applicable, and the same is t rue of its 14 per cent per a n n um l im it on t rans fe rs of profits, dividends, and interest on fo re ign cap i ta l ." Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, wh ich are not legal tender. Residents may free ly hold and nego t ia te gold in any fo rm in Chile. Impor ts and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance w i th the normal fo rma l i t ies for impo rt and export t ransac t ions, inc lud- ing registration w i th the Central Bank. Changes during 1976 January 5. Central Bank C ircu lar No. 2437 specified 16 convertible cu r renc ies that the Cen tral Bank stood ready to purchase. January 6. C ircu lar No. 2438 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange ma rke ts f r om Ch$8.50 to Ch$9 per US$1. January 15. C ircu lar No. 2439 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange ma rke ts to Ch$9.40 per US$1. January 16. C ircu lar No. 2440 mod if ied the regula- tions rega rd ing commissions on fo re ign trade transac- tions. All commissions received by Chilean firms had to be surrendered w i th in 10 days a f t er receipt. P a r t i al surrender was requ ired for fo re ign f irms ope ra t ing in Chile. C i rcu lar No. 2441 amended ce r ta in impo rt regulations accord ing ly. January 20. With effect f r om February 1, authorized banks could no longer purchase fo re ign exchange fo r- ward f rom exporters. The Cen tral Bank continued to sell fore ign exchange for impor ts fo rwa rd to banks for delivery in 90 or 120 days (C i rcu lar No. 2442 ). January 20. C i rcu lar No. 2443 modified the ru les for the financing of exports, w i th effect f r om February 1. The va l id i ty of export reg is tra t ions was increased f rom 60 to 120 days, a l though the Cen tral Bank could establish shorter periods. P r e f in an c ing in foreign cur- rency was substituted for the a r rangemen ts a l low ing the forward sale of export proceeds; such p r e f in an c ing could cover 50 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue for most exports (20 per cent for exports by fo re ign en te rp r ises ), but was not available for cer ta in specified exports (mostly m in e r a l s ). This financing would not be avail- 3 In March 1977, Chile enacted a new Foreign Investment Law. CHILE able earlier than 120 days before shipment, and for some goods not until shipment had taken place. January 26. Circular No. 2444 provided that CEPACS issued after Janua ry 28 could on ma tu r i ty be redeemed in pesos, for the f u ll dollar amount of the certificate, at the preva i l ing exchange rate. Previously, the redemp- t ion was only for the peso amount originally paid. January 27. Circular No. 2446 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$10.00 per US$1. January 29. Circular No. 2448 reduced the m i n im um period of repayment or re-export of capital imported under the general reg ime of Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 f rom 18 months to 6 months, for transactions authorized by the Central Bank on or a f ter February 3. Also, capital imported under this regime no longer had to be sold to the Central Bank in the spot bank ing market. January 30. Circular No. 2447 authorized the impor- ta t ion of automobiles by exemp t ing these f rom the 10,000 per cent advance deposit requ iremen t. February 8. Decree-Law No. 72 substantially reduced impo rt duties on many goods. February 20. Circular No. 2451 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$10.30 per US$1. February 20. Circular No. 2452 allowed access to the spot b a n k i ng market for capital outflows o r ig ina t ing f rom cer ta in direct inves tmen ts (provided they had been financed by an aporte de capital), irrespective of the exchange market through which the capital in f low had t ak en place. This measure was applicable to both old and new capital. February 26. Investments of capital up to US$50,000 to be imported under Decree-Law No. 6QO could i n i t i- ally be registered under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272, for a m a x im um period of one year (C ircu lar No. 2453). February 27. Future capital in f lows to be registered under Articles 15 and 16 of Decree No. 1272 could only be repatriated through the fo rwa rd b ank ing market (C ircu lar No. 2454). February 28. Decree-Law No. 1349 created Ch i lean Copper Committee. March 5. A 10,000 per cent advance import deposit was aga in required for automobiles (Circular No. 2457). March 5. Circular No. 2458 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$10.75 per US$1. March 5. The Central Bank authorized trad ing in CEPACS on the stock exchanges of Santiago and Val- para iso. Prev ious ly, on ly banks were authorized to deal w i th these ins t rumen ts (C ircu lar No. 2459). March 79. Circular No. 2463 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$ 10.90 per US$1. March 22. CEPACS henceforth could be purchased at the spot bank ing market rate prevailing at the t ime of purchase. Previously, the forward bank ing market rate preva i l ing on the date of purchase was applicable (Circular No. 2464). the 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE March 25. With effect f rom June 1, banks could provide f i n a n c i ng in fo re ign currency up to 50 per cent for exports to fo re ign as well as domestic firms. With effect f rom Apr il 1, all powers relating to copper exports were t ran s fe r red f rom CODELCO to the Ch i lean Copper Comm i t tee (Circular No. 2465 ). March 26. Circular No. 2466 established the pro- cedures to be followed by the Ch i lean Copper Com- m i t tee with respect to impo r ts (commenc ing Ap r il 30) and exports (commenc ing April 1). March 26. Hotels and s im i lar establishments au thor- ized to deal in fore ign exchange could charge a com- m iss ion of 4 per m i l l, the commission a lready applied by b a n k i ng in s t i tu t ions (C i r cu l ar No. 2 4 6 7 ). March 29. C i rcu lar No. 2468 depreciated the peso in bo th spot exchange m a r k e ts to C h $ 1 1 . 15 per US$1. April 1. N a t u r al and ju r id ical persons h en c e fo r th could f r e e ly pu rchase, sell, deal w i th, or t r a n s f er gold in any fo rm in Chile ( a n d, sub ject to C en t r al Bank app rova l, a b r o a d ). Expor ts and impo r ts of gold became sub ject to the general t r ade con tro ls. P r ev iou s ly, dea l- ings in gold in Chile were l im i t ed to the C en t r al B ank and au tho r ized dea le rs, wh i le impo r ts and expo r ts were severely res t r ic ted (C i rcu lar No. 2469 ). April 1. Ch i lean n a t i o n a ls and fo r e ign e rs w i th at least two years' residence in Chile no longer were obliged to convert the ir fo r e ign cu r rency e a r n i n gs in to dome s t ic cu r rency (C i rcu lar No. 2470 ). April 1. The Cen t ral Bank a u t h o r i z ed comm e r c i al b anks and other f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns to pu rcha se CEPACS for the ir own accoun t. P rev iou s ly, they cou ld not acqu i re these cer t if ica tes for th e ir own po r t fo l ios (C i r- cu lar No. 2471 ). April 1. The Cen tral Bank eased the fo r e ign exchange su r render requ i rement for hotels and s im i lar f i rms, e l im in a t ing the need to ind ica te the purpose of the t ran sac t ion (C i rcu lar No. 2 4 7 2 ). April 1. C ircu lars Nos. 2473 and 2474 mod i f ied the regu la t ions govern ing sales of fo r e ign exchange by com- mercial banks for their own account and w i thout pr ior authorization by the Central Bank. Such sales were now permitted for certain tax payments, a wide va r ie ty of insurance and freight paymen ts, and a number of other charges. April 1. Exporters could repurchase fo re ign exchange corresponding to 10 per cent of export proceeds (p rev i- ously 5 per c e n t ); re ta ined fore ign cu r rency bal- ances were permitted up to US$100,000 (p rev ious ly US$50,000) (Circular No. 2475). April 5. The sale of fo re ign exchange was au tho r ized to cover expenses for the promotion of invisibles (Circular No. 2476). April 6. Circular No. 2477 depreciated the exchange rate in both spot exchange markets to Ch$11.45 per US$1. April 8. Circular No. 2479 authorized persons importing capital under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 120 to repurchase foreign exchange in the spot banking ma rket corresponding to the fu ll amount of the trans- action. The amount repurchased at the moment the cap i tal was impor ted could be ma in ta ined in an account denom ina ted in fo re ign currency for purposes of con- v e r t ing it in to local currency for the repayment of the ou t s t and ing loan or for import paymen ts. April 9. The sale of fo re ign exchange was au thor ized for the comm iss ions and in su rance fees on f o r e i gn loans im p o r t ed und er A r t ic les 14 to 16 of Decree No. 1272 (C i r c u l ar No. 2478 ). April 13. C i rcu lar No. 2480 dep rec ia ted the peso in bo th spot exchange m a rk e ts to Ch$11 .55 per US$1. April 15. C o n t r i b u t i o n s, loans, and o ther t r a n s f e rs in f o r e i gn cu r rency to nonp ro f it o rg an i z a t ions had to be reg is te red w i th the Cen t ral B ank (C i r cu l ar No. 2481 ). April 19. The Cen t ral Bank au tho r ized the es tab l ish- m ent of fo r e ign exchange houses. These could e f fect a n um b er of se rv ice - re la ted exchange t r an s a c t ion s, no tab ly those r e l a t ed to t r av el and v a r ious service paymen ts abroad but no t rade or c ap i t a l - r e l a t ed t r an s a c t ion s. An exchange d i f f e r e n t i a l , 4 p er m i l l, m a y be charged on sales and pu rchases of exchange, in add i t ion to a free ly estab- lished comm i s s ion. Foreign exchange houses were requ i red to sell the ir excess ho ld ings of fo re ign exchange to comme rc ial banks at the end of every week, although the Cen t ral Bank could prescribe the ir sale at an ea r l ier da te (C ircu lar No. 2483) .. April 22. C ircu lar No. 2484 provided that fore ign exchange for t ravel abroad could be purchased 30 days before depa r tu re (prev ious ly, 7 days before d ep a r tu r e ). April 22. The Central Bank authorized commercial banks to sell foreign exchange forward for imports va lued at US$1,500 or less, f.o.b.; the registration requ irement for such impo r ts was revoked. Automobiles and other vehicles we igh ing more t h an 1,500 k i lograms and impor ts subject to the 10,000 per cent prior deposit requ irement were excluded (C i rcu lar No. 2487 ). April 22. A d d i t i o n al impo r ts f r om LAETA coun tr ies h en c e fo r th could be se t t led ou ts ide the rec iprocal credit agreemen ts w i th the coun t r ies concerned (C i rcu lar No. 2488 ). April 22. C ircu lar No. 2489 deprec ia ted the peso in bo th spot exchange marke ts to C h $ 1 1 . 80 per US$1. April 23. Impor ts of new au tomob i les were exempted f r om the m a n d a t o ry 10,000 per cent advance deposit requ i rement and became cond i t ion a l ly subject to the deposit (C i rcu lar No. 2490 ). April 23. Decree No. 1444 imposed a tax of 100 per cent on automobiles and light motor vehicles with a landed va lue in excess of US$11,000 (the equ iva lent of about US$3,000 f .o .b .). April 29. The Central Bank unified the two com- pulsory wa i t ing periods for the purchase of foreign exchange for imports, at 90 days. Previously, this was 120 days for imports effected under letters of credit and 90 days for those on a collection basis (Circular No. 2491). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 29. The Cen tral Bank au tho r ized comme rc ial banks to advance, at a f ree established in terest ra te, the total amount of fo re ign exchange for impo r ts va lued at US$1,500 or less, f .o .b. Banks were also au thor ized to advance fo re ign exchange for paymen ts in respect of a number of inv i s ib le t r an s a c t ions in the b a n k i ng ma rke t, inc lud ing c e r t a in in te rest p aym en t s, in su r an ce p rem ium s, and f re ight paymen ts (C i r c u l ar No. 2 4 9 2 ). April 29. The regu la t ions gove rn ing r em i t t an c es of capital brought in und er Ar t ic le 14 of Decree No. 1272 were modified. All cap i tal whose inf low had been registered under Decree-Law No. 326 of February 21, 1974 ( c a p i t al that had en tered be fo re December 31, 1973) could now be t r an s f e r r ed p romp t ly, wh i le p rev i- ously cer ta in m i n im um r ep aym ent schedules had to be observed (C i rcu lar No. 2494). April 30. C i rcu lar No. 2497 established new regu la- tions gove rn ing impo rt t ransac t ions to be au thor ized by the Ch i lean Copper Committee. W i th effect f rom June 1, the Comm i t t ee would be responsible for the au tho r iza t ion of impo r ts to be used by copper p rodu c ing firms, p e r fo rm ing in this respect the du t ies of the Cen t ral Bank. On May 27, the effec t ive date was postponed to September 1 by C i rcu lar No. 2516. May 3. C ircu lar No. 2498 deprec ia ted the peso in both spot exchange ma rke ts to Ch$12.20 per US$1. May 13. The exchange a l loca t ion system for study abroad was s imp l i f ied and the m a x im um a l loca t ions were increased. The t r a n s f er of US$1,000 a mon th a student was now pe rm i t ted, regardless of coun t ry of des t ina t ion, level of s tud ies, n um b er of members in the household, or s tud ies previously u n d e r t a k en (C i r c u l ar No. 2506). May 13. The exchange allocation system for travel abroad was s imp l i f ied. Among other th ings, proof of residence ceased to be requ ired for tr ips w i t h in La t in America (C i rcu lar No. 2507). May 14. Circular No. 2509 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange ma rke ts to Ch$12.45 per US$1. May 20. Circular No. 2512 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange ma rke ts to Ch$13.00 per US$1. May 27. Foreign investors who had impor ted capital were perm i t ted to re ta in export proceeds correspond ing to the amount of their profits if au tho r iza t ion to rem it the latter had been delayed a year or more since the remittance app l ica t ion had been subm i t ted (C i rcu lar No. 2514). May 2S. An automatic roll-over period of 10 days a f ter the due date was introduced for cap i tal imported under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272. Where no specific renewal period was laid down or where the cap i tal was re-exported, the validity was considered extended auto- matically for the same period or ig ina l ly registered, w i th a m in imum of 6 months (C i rcu lar No. 2 5 1 7 ). June 1. Circular No. 2521 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$13.30 per US$1. CHILE June 7. Decree-Law No. 501 effected a fu r ther gen- eral reduction in import duties. June 17. Circular No. 2525 depreciated the peso in both spot exchange markets to Ch$13.90 per US$1. June 17. The Central Bank reduced the compulsory w a i t ing period for the delivery of foreign exchange f rom 90 to 60 days (Circular No. 2526). This period was f u r- ther reduced to 30 days on July 28 (Circular No. 2533 ). June 21. C ircu lar No. 2527 provided that impo r ts and exports of gold wou ld be authorized by the Central Bank in accordance with the regular procedures for other impor ts and exports. June 29. Circular No. 2533 announced a modifica- tion of the system of periodical exchange ra te ad jus t- men ts. The peso would be appreciated to Ch$12.50 per US$1 on June 30, a f t er which it would gradually be depreciated to Ch$13.21 per US$1 by August 4. July 1. Hence fo r th, the only copper export proceeds subject to surrender to the Central Bank were the proceeds f rom copper, copper products, and copper by-products exported by the large copper mines. Previ- ously, all export proceeds of all copper mines had to be surrendered to the Central Bank (C i rcu la rs Nos. 2534 and 2536 ). July 8. Commercial banks were no longer perm i t ted to incur an oversold fore ign currency position. Banks had to regularize any ex is t ing oversold position by pur- chas ing fo re ign exchange f rom the Central Bank (Cir- cu lar No. 2537 ). July 19. The bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th Poland expired. July 29. The fo re ign exchange a l loca t ions for travel abroad were again increased (Circular No. 2542). The allocation for travel to neighboring countries was raised f r om US$200 to US$1,000 and an a l loca t ion of US$3,000 was set for all other coun tr ies (previously US$400 for other La t in Ame r ican countries and the Caribbean and US$1,000 for all other coun t r ies ). July 29. The compulsory wa i t ing period for fo re ign exchange delivery for imports was fu r ther reduced f rom 60 to 30 days (Circular No. 2543). July 29. Circular No. 2544 broadened the scope of exchange t ran sac t ions that fo re ign exchange houses could unde r take. July 30. Circular No. 2545 increased the m i n im um re-export period for capital imported under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 f rom 6 months to 24 months from the date of sale of the fore ign exchange, for trans- actions concluded af ter August 2. Capital re-exports could be authorized at an earlier date, however, where the average period du r ing which the capital had rema ined in Chile was at least 24 months. July 30. Decree-Law No. 1534 modified Decree-Law No. 619 of 1976. The registration tax on impor ts was henceforth deducted f rom the applicable import du ty. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE August 4. A new list of d a i ly exchange rates was announced. The rate was to move f rom Ch$13 .23 per US$1 on August 5 to Ch$ 14.04 per US$1 on Sep- tember 4 (C i r c u l ar No. 2548). August 26. Bo r row ing abroad for per iods of less t h an 24 m o n t hs was p e rm i t t e d, p rov ided the loans were used to repay o u t s t a n d i ng loans in fo r e ign cu r r en cy owed to the b a n k i ng sys tem for t r a n s a c t i o ns not sub ject to con t rol by the Cen t ral B a nk (C i r c u l ar No. 2 5 5 1 ). August 30. A new l i st of impo r ts was issued th at requ i red the p r ior au tho r i z a t ion of the M i n i s t ry of N a t i o n al De fen se, in acco rdance w i th Law No. 17798 of June 23, 1975 (C i rcu lar No. 2552 ). September 1. C i r c u l ar No. 2554 mod i f i ed and s im- p l i f ied the rules rega rd ing the r em i t t an ce abroad of p r e l i m i n a ry d i v i d e n ds a n d / or p ro f i ts on f o r e i gn i n v e s t- m en t s. This m e a s u re was comp l em en t ed on October 14 by C i r c u l ar No. 2581. September 3. A new l i st of d a i ly exchange ra tes was i s sued. The ra te was to move f rom Ch$ 14.07 per US$1 on Sep tember 5 to Ch$ 14.80 per US$1 on October 4 (C i r c u l ar No. 2558 ). September 6. C e r t a in mo tor veh ic les we re exemp ted f r om the m a n d a t o ry 10,000 per cent a d v a n ce im p o rt d epo s it and became c o n d i t i o n a l ly sub j e ct to the d epo s it ( C i r c u l ar No. 2559 ). September JO. C i r c u l ar No. 2562 e s tab l i shed new ru les a nd c o n d i t i o ns f or expo rt f i n a n c i n g. September 11. Decree No. 480 of the M i n i s t ry of Economy, D ev e lopm en t, and R e c o n s t r u c t i on abo l ished the L i st of P e rm i t t ed Im p o r ts and i n s t e ad i n t r o d u c ed a L i st of P r o h i b i t ed Impo r t s. It comp r i s ed c a v i a r, a r t i- f i c i al f ur a r t i c l e s, u nw o r k ed pea r ls, p rec iou s, sem i- p rec ious, and s y n t h e t ic u nw o r k ed s tones, and color te le- v i s i on receivers. September 24. C i r cu l ar No. 2573 revoked C i r c u l ar No. 2552 and p rov ided a new l ist of im p o r ts t h at r equ i r ed the p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on of the M i n i s t ry of N a t i o n al De fense. October 4. A new list of d a i ly exchange r a t es was issued. The ra te was to move f rom Ch$14 .83 per US$1 on October 5 to Ch$ 15.76 per US$1 on November 4 (C i rcu lar No. 2577). October 15. Banks were au tho r ized to open, nego- t ia te, and con f i rm credits w i thout access to the exchange ma rke t, i.e., ag a in st t h e ir own fo re ign cu r rency resources (C i r cu l ar No. 2582 ). October 30. Ch i le w i t h d r ew f r om the A n d e an Pact. It would con t inue to comp ly w i th the Pact's Decisions Nos. 40, 46, 56, and 94 of the Ca r tagena Ag reement rega rd ing double taxa t ion, Andean m u l t i n a t i o n al cor- po ra t ions, and reg ional h ighways and t e l e commun i c a- t i o ns sys tems, but not w i th Decision No. 24 regard ing f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e n t s. ( In M a r ch 1977, Ch i le enac ted a new Fore ign Inv e s tm ent L aw .) November 25. C e r t a in new mo tor vehicles were exemp ted f r om the m a n d a t o ry 10,000 per cent advance depo s it and m a de c o n d i t i o n a l ly sub ject to th is deposit (C i r c u l ar No. 2594). December 1. The f o rw a rd b a n k i ng m a r k et was e l im i- n a t e d. H e n c e f o r t h, a ll exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns had to be e f f e c t ed on a spot b a s i s. The m a in e f fect was t h at fo r- e ign ex ch ange for im p o rt p a ym e n ts w as made a v a i l a b le on a spot ba s i s, w i t h o ut a compu l so ry w a i t i ng per iod — wh ich had last been reduced to 30 days on J u ly 29 (C i r c u l ar No. 2596 ). December 2. A new l i st of d a i ly exchange ra tes was issued. The r a te was to move f r om Ch$16 .75 per US$1 on December 5 to Ch$17 .54 per US$1 on J a n u a ry 4, 1977 ( C i r c u l ar No. 2 5 9 9 ). December 3. A rec ip rocal c r ed it ag reement w i th E c u a d or came i n to fo rce ( C i r c u l ar No. 2600 ). December 7. Decree No. 1098 p rov ided for a f u r t h er la rge r e d u c t i on in im p o rt d u t i e s. December 22. The to tal cha rges on f o r e i gn c r ed i ts ob t a in ed for the p r e f i n a n c i ng of expo r ts cou ld not exceed the London i n t e r b a nk o f fe red ra te (L IBOR) p lus 2 .5 pe rcen tage po in t s, or the U.S. p r ime r a te plus 2 pe rcen tage po in ts (C i r c u l ar No. 2 6 0 8 ). December 23. Deve lopment b anks a u t h o r i z ed to deal in fo r e ign exchange we re p e rm i t t ed to c o n t r a ct fo r e ign debt w i th a m a t u r i ty in excess of one year (C i r c u l ar No. 2 6 0 6 ). 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a lue is 0.0204628 g ram of fine gold per New Ta iwan Do l la r. On Feb rua ry 16, 1973, the Repub- lic of Ch ina es tab l ished a cen t ral ra te of NT$1 = SDR 0 .0218144, co r respond ing at the t ime to 0.0193858 gram of fine gold per new Ta iwan do l lar or NT$38 = US$1, and av a i l ed i t s e lf of w id er m a r g i n s. The o f f i c i al b u y i ng and s e l l i ng ra tes for the U.S. d o l l ar a re NT$37 .95 and NT$38.05, re spec t ive ly, per U S $ 1. B u y i ng and s e l l- ing rates for c e r t a in o ther cu r r en c i es 1 a re also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th da i ly quo ta t ions based on the b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes for the U.S. do l l ar in m a r k e ts ab road. Cur- renc ies for wh ich ra tes are not o f f i c i a l ly posted may be accepted by au tho r i z ed b a n ks ( " appo in t ed b a n k s " ), and the rates a re c a l cu l a t ed in acco rdance w i th f o r e i gn m a r- ket quo t a t ion s .2 W i th c e r t a in excep t ion s, e a rn e rs of fo r- eign exchange mu st se ll it to b a n ks a p p o i n t ed by the Cen t ral Bank of Ch ina. There is no exchange m a r k e t. The appo in t ed b a n ks c lear t h e ir exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th the C e n t r al Bank on the f o l l o w i ng b u s i n e ss d ay. Forward cover f a c i l i t i es a re l im i t ed to im p o rt and expo rt t r a n s a c t i o ns and to the o f f i c i a l ly posted c u r r e n c i e s, w i th the exception of the U.S. do l la r. Administration of Control The Ex e cu t ive Y u an is r e spon s ib le for po l ic ies con- ce rn ing fo re ign exchange and t rade con t ro ls. Fore ign exchange and t r a de m a t t e rs a re e n t r u s t ed to the M i n i s- tries of F in an ce and E c o n om ic A f f a i rs and the C e n t r al B a n k. The M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce h as g en e r al j u r i s d i c- t ion over f o r e i gn ex ch ange laws and r e g u l a t i o n s, and is in charge of gove rnment rem i t tance s. The Fo re ign Exchange D e p a r tm e nt of the C e n t r al B a nk is re spon- sible for the o v e r a ll m a n a g em e nt of f o r e i gn ex ch ang e, f or t he d e t e rm i n a t i on of t he o f f i c i al b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates of ex ch ang e, and for the s u p e r v i s i on of the appo in ted b a n k s, of wh i ch the B a nk of T a iw an is the most im p o r t a n t. The C e n t r al B a nk a l so l i c e n s es p r i v a te rem i t tances and c ap i t al mov em en t s. The Board of For- e ign T rade of the M i n i s t ry of E conom ic A f f a i rs coo rd i- na tes i n d u s t r i al a nd t r a de p o l i c i e s, i n c l u d i ng those r e l a t- ing to the im p o rt r e g ime and expo rt p r om o t i o n, and is in cha rge of the i s s u a n ce of im p o rt and expo rt l i c en s e s. By de lega t ion, the A p p l i c a t i on Rece ipt and D ispa tch Cen ter at the Board of Fo r e ign T rade sc reens a p p l i c a- t ions for im p o rt l i c en s es and issues the l i c e n s e s; for some goods, howeve r, im p o rt a p p l i c a t i o ns and l i c en s es a re screened and issued by 20 a p p o i n t ed b a n ks and t h e ir b ranches. Expo rt a p p l i c a t i o ns a re s c r e en ed, and expo rt p e rm i ts a re i s sued, by 33 a p p o i n t ed b a n k s. Most f o r e i gn exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns a re condu c t ed t h r o u gh appo in t ed banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts m u st be ob t a in ed in A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r s, deu tsche m a r k, Hong K o ng do l l a r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, S ingapo re do l l a r s, Swiss f r a n c s, or U.S. d o l l a r s. C u r r e n- cies not o f f i c i a l ly posted may be accepted by a p p o i n t ed b a n ks but must be conver ted in to posted c u r r e n c i es in exchange m a rk e ts ab road. The C e n t r al B a nk s u p p l i es fo re ign exchange in the fo rm of any of the posted cu r- renc ies for m a k i ng p a ym e n ts to r e s id en ts of f o r e i gn coun t r ie s. Nonresident Accounts The R e p u b l ic of Ch ina 's exchange c o n t r ol r e g u l a t i o ns do not p rov ide for a c lear d i s t i n c t i on be tween r e s id en ts and non re s iden t s. As a consequence, persons who wou ld be con s ide red n o n r e s i d e nt u n d er m a ny o ther ex ch ange con t rol sy s t ems a re g r an t ed t r e a tm e nt not e s s e n t i a l ly d i f f e r e nt f r om th at accorded to re s iden ts of the R e p u b l ic of C h i na in exchange con t rol m a t t e r s. Accoun ts in new Ta iwan do l la rs of persons who are r e s i d e n ts of o ther coun t r i es a re t rea ted in the same way and a re sub ject to the same r e g u l a t i o ns as o ther accoun ts in n ew T a iw an d o l l a r s. The exchange con t rol r egu l a- t i o ns do not p rov ide for b locked ba lances and b locked a c coun ts held in the n ame of re s iden ts of f o r e i gn coun t r i e s. Re s iden ts may m a i n t a in accoun ts in U.S. do l l a rs or Hong Kong d o l l a r s, as f o l l o w s: Ho lde rs of f o r e i gn b a n k- no tes or t r av e l e rs checks may have these c red i ted to Fo re ign C u r r e n cy Accoun t s, and r e c i p i e n ts of r em i t- t a n c es f r om abroad or of m o n ey o rde rs or o ther nego- t i a b le i n s t r um e n ts d rawn on fo re ign b anks may have the proceeds c red i ted to Fo re ign Ex ch ange A c c o u n t s. B a l- ances in Fo re ign C u r r e n cy A c c o u n ts m ay be w i t h d r awn in the o r i g i n al c u r r e n cy or in n ew T a iw an d o l l a r s, a f t er conv e r s ion at the o f f i c i al b u y i ng ra te. B a l an c es in For- e i gn Exchange Accoun ts m ay be w i t h d r a wn in n ew T a iw an d o l l a r s; they may also be r em i t t ed ab road f r e e l y, w i th the excep t ion that fo r e ign exchange that o r ig ina ted in the U n i t ed States m ay not be r em i t t ed to H o ng K o n g. Fo r e ign Exchange A c coun ts and Fo re ign C u r r e n cy A c c o u n ts a re s u b d i v i d ed in to i n t e r e s t - b e a r i ng t ime depos i ts and passbook a c c o u n ts (w h i ch do not bear i n t e r e s t ). Imports and Import Payments* Most impo r ts r equ i re i n d i v i d u al l icen se s. Appo in t ed b a n ks have a u t h o r i ty to screen impo rt app l ica t ions for 1 A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r s, d e u t s c he m a r k. Hong K o ng d o l l a r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, S i n g a p o re d o l l a r s, a nd Sw iss f r a n c s. 2 A c o n v e r s i on r a te of ¥ 8.52 = NT$1 e x i s ts for J a p a n e se b a n k n o t e s. :l Spec ial r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to impo r ts i n to the th r ee expo rt p roce s s ing zone s. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA most items on the permissible list (see be low ), to issue import licenses on behalf of the Central Bank, and to make the necessary foreign exchange available; these goods are automatically approved for an impo rt license. For other commodities subject to license, license app l i- cations are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. The holder of an import license is entitled to ob ta in the necessary fo re ign exchange f rom an appointed bank. Importers of goods on the permissible list may enter into contracts on documents against payment ( D / P ), documents against acceptance ( D / A ), or usance letter of credit terms (credit terms of less than 180 days may be approved by appointed banks, wh i le longer te rms require approval by the Central B a n k ). For impo r ts on a letter of credit basis, exchange settlement corre- sponding to 15 per cent of the letter of credit must be made w i th in 28 days of approval of the license for imports tak ing place on the basis of sight letters of credit, usance letters of credit, letters of credit f inanced by self-provided exchange, and letters of credit on an installment payment basis; for letters of credit covering bulk impor ts specially approved by the M in i s t ry of Eco- nom ic Affa irs, the settlement requ i rement is 10 per cent. This advance settlement requ i remen t, the so-called per- formance deposit, is a condition for the issuance of a letter of credit. Imports f rom commun ist countries are prohibited in principle, although imports of bulk goods, indus tr ial raw materials, and many consumer goods f rom any source other than the People's Republic of China are now being licensed. The authorities license and check impor ts f r om Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain cer- tain impor ts direct f rom the coun t ry of p roduc t ion and to control effectively imports f rom the People's Repub l ic of China; for similar reasons, certain commod i t ies are not permitted to be imported f rom Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Ma lays ia, and Singapore. Cer ta in commod i t ies financed with U.S. aid funds ( inc lud ing tied letter of credit f u n d s) can be impo r ted only f r om the Un i ted States. Imports of color television sets and many types of scrap metal are prohibited when o r i g i n a t i ng in Japan. Applications for imports f rom Japan of machinery va lued at over US$200,000 for each ind iv idu al order require the approval of the Board of Foreign Trade. Imports of 1,202 items on the perm iss ib le list (see below) are allowed only when the goods or ig ina te in Western Europe, the United States, or Canada. Imports are divided into three groups: ( 1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited impor ts comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries f rom impo r ta t ion but also a w ide range of Pharmaceuticals. The controlled list contains, in addition to such items as arms and ammun i t ion, ships, and poisonous chemicals, a number of luxu ry goods and less essential items (such as certain 124 Chinese luxu ry foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, ce r ta in medicines, tea, sugar and its substitutes, molasses, made- up clothing, consumer durables, an t iques, cer ta in jewe l ry, gold, and s i lve r) and goods subject to domestic regu la t ion and a l loca t ion. The first type of goods are l icensed r e s t r i c t i v e l y ;4 goods of the second type are o f ten imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Liquor and ciga- rettes are impo r ted by a gove rnment monopo ly o rgan iza- t ion, which is also responsible for domestic d is tr ibu t ion of these commodities. Goods on the permissible l ist are licensed l ibe ra l ly and can be impor ted by both end-users and traders. The impor ta t ion of items on the controlled l ist is perm i t ted on ly to fac to r ies and end-users. Manu- fac tu re rs app ly ing for licenses for raw ma ter ia ls are encou raged to give p re fe rence to locally p roduced sup- plies. On December 31, 1976, of 15,710 classified import items, 13 were prohibited, 529 were controlled, and 14,768 were perm iss ib le; on the same date, only 140 items on the permissible list required approval by the Board of Foreign Trade, while all others could be imported under the automatic approval system. A general (cove r ing) licensing procedure applies in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, manu fac tu re rs and other direct end-users are g ran ted au tho r iza t ion s em i annu a l ly for the impo r ta t ion of l is ted items specified by value and by quan t i ty. Exchange for such impo r ts is ob ta inab le au toma t ica l ly each t ime the importer presents the general approved l icense at an appo in ted bank. Fu r the rmo re, an au to- ma t ic approval system is applied to most items on the permissible list. Under this system, impo r te rs may ob ta in fore ign exchange at any appointed bank by sub- m i t ted impo rt licenses wh ich are au toma t ica l ly approved. On December 31, 1975, the system applied to 14,675 i tems, and on December 31, 1976 to 14,628 items. Special regu la t ions apply to seven commodities nor- ma l ly imported in bulk shipments.5 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese flag vessels for their impo r ta t ion. According to the in tended u t i l i z a t ion, goods may be imported by one of the three ma in groups of importers: gov e rnm ent t r ad ing agencies, qua l i f ied p r iv a te traders, and end-users and manu fac tu re r s. The impo rt of crude oil is con f ined to the Chinese Pe tro leum Corpora t ion. The Central Trust of China is the m a in government t r ad ing agency. It hand les impo r ts for gove rnment and m i l i t a ry organizations, public enterprises, and other cus- tome rs. Another gove rnment t rad ing agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Ta iwan Prov inc ial Gove rnmen t, some local industries, and certain other customers. 4 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are l ibera l ly g ran ted when the goods concerned are for equ ipp ing new fac i l i t ies, e.g., hotels for the t o u r i st t r ad e. •" Soybeans, soybean rapeseed. flour, whea t, barley, corn, sorghum, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Firms that wish to operate as au thor ized ("regis- tered") importers must ob ta in approval (" reg is t ra t ion") f rom the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms mu st be ope ra t ing in acco rdance w i th c e r t a in laws and have a m i n im um cap i tal of NT$500,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more th an US$100,000 for the last year. Traders licensed to opera te on a c omm i s s i on bas is may act on ly as agen ts for fo r e ign supp l ie rs. They also mu st be registered by the Board of Fore ign Trade. End-users and m a n u f a c t u r e rs are pe rm i t ted to impo rt r aw m a t e r i a l s, m a c h i n e r y, and r e p l a c em e nt e q u i pm e nt needed for the ir f a c to r i e s. In g r a n t i ng l icen ses to t h is category of importer, the l icens ing au tho r i t i es take in to account such c r i t e r ia as p rodu c t ion capac i ty and equ ip- men t. In process ing app l i c a t ions for l icenses to im p o rt capital equ ipm ent for the c o n s t r u c t i on of new p l a n t s, the l icens ing au tho r i t ies consider the f e a s ib i l i ty of the project and i ts p r io r i ty f r om the po int of v iew of the economic needs of the coun t ry. When the c a p i t al goods concerned a re av a i l ab le f r om dome s t ic sources, impo rt licenses usua l ly are not issued. Impor ts to be used for processing or p roduc ing goods for expo rt are l icen sed up to r equ i r em en ts (e.g., raw co t ton, woo l, and wood for the p roduc t ion of p lywood ). According to the me thods of financing, impo r ts may be d iv ided in to two broad ca tego r ies: ( 1) im p o r ts for wh ich exchange is a l loca ted d i r e c t ly out of o f f i c i al exchange reserves, and (2) impo r ts which a re made without recourse to o f f ic ial exchange reserves and wh ich comprise (a) those made u n d er the U.S. P.L. 480 pro- gram and (b) those paid for w i th se l f -p rov ided exchange or exchange supplied by fo r e ign inves tors, fo re ign lend- ers, or overseas Chinese. Imports ob ta ined w i th se lf- provided exchange are those financed by impo r t e rs out of the ir own fo re ign exchange ob ta ined by them p r ior to the ir com ing to the Repub l ic of China or o r i g i n a t i ng from exchange receipts exempt f rom the su r render requ iremen t. Imports are sub jec t, in add i t ion to cus toms d u t y, to harbor dues of 4 per cent of the customs va lue and, for some goods, to a commod i ty tax of 10-60 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les requ ire approval f r om the Central Bank. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are pe rm i t ted f ree ly when the basic t rade t r an s- action has been approved. The t r an s f er of in t e r e s t, profits, and ea rn ings on au tho r ized fo re ign i n v e s tm e n ts in the Republic of China may be made w i thout restric- tion. Residents may at any t ime ( b ut not more o f ten than four times a y e a r) make ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs up to the equivalent of US$250 for any purpose o ther t h an import payments; applications for such personal rem i t- tances are approved au tom a t i c a l ly. Foreign exchange for paymen ts for ce r ta in o ther invisibles is allocated only up to established l im i ts or REPUBLIC OF CHINA on a percentage basis. Foreign techn ic ians are allowed to rem it to their dependents abroad up to 60 per cent of t h e ir m o n t h ly sa la ry. In cases where the sa la ry is exempt f r om income tax u n d er the c e r t i f i c a te of tax- exemp t ion (or the income tax is borne by the emp loyer) a n d / or l iv ing expenses of the employee are borne by the emp loyer, the am o u nt to be rem i t ted may be inc reased by 20 per cen t. Emp loyees of the Gov e rnm ent or of educa t ional i n s t i t u t i o ns may rem it to the ir depen- den ts in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a mon th. M emb e r sh ip fees of fo re ign i n s t i t u t i o ns and ce r ta in pay- men ts for news services, books, and magaz ines (p e r- sonal subscr ip t ions for reference purposes) are also approved. Receipts f rom local subscr ip t ions to, and sales o f, impo r ted newspapers and pe r iod ica ls a re r em i t- t ab l e. Up to 70 per cent of the net am o u nt of mo t ion- p ic tu re film ren ta ls may be t rans fe r red abroad; the r em a i n d er is to be used for local expenses. The rem i t- tance of the e a rn ings of fo re ign e n t e r t a i n e rs may be approved on a case-by-case basis. The f u ll am o u nt of tu i t ion and l i v i ng expenses du r ing the f i rst academ ic year of s tud en ts s t u d y i ng abroad may be r em i t t ed, and up to US$4,000 a year in the second to s ix th academ ic years, but may be applied for only three t imes d u r i ng the five years. Residents are granted an exchange allow- ance e q u i v a l e nt to US$1 ,200 a person a t r ip (US$600 for each a c c om p a n y i ng d ep end ent u n d er the age of 12) for any approved type of t rave l; v isas for tou r i st t r av e l, however, are not no rma l ly g ran ted to Chinese na t iona ls. For bus iness t r a v e l, an a l lowance e q u i v a l e nt to US$1,500 a mon th for up to three mon ths is g ran ted for l i v i ng expenses. All t ravel a l loca t ions are net of fa res and t icke ts. Applications for exchange to pay for ce r ta in o ther types of inv is ib les are app roved on t h e ir me r i t s. Re s iden ts leav ing the R epub l ic of C h i na may t a ke w i th them no more than NT$2,000 in domes t ic bank- notes and 20 coins and the equ iva lent of US$600 in fo re ign cu r renc ies. Non re s ident t rave le rs who have stayed in the R epub l ic less than s ix mon ths may take w i th them any un spent portion of the fo re ign cu r rency wh ich they registered upon en t ry, and may in add i t ion conve rt local cu r rency in to fo re ign cu r r en cy upon sub- m i s s ion of the fo re ign exchange m em o r a n d um ev idenc ing the ir acqu is i t ion of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds** A ll exports requ i re licenses, m a i n ly in o rder to en su re the su r render of fo re ign exchange. Licenses may be issued on ly for exports to n o n c omm u n i st coun t r ie s. The re -expo r ta t ion of impor ted goods is pe rm i t ted a f ter they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are h a n d l ed by gove rnment t r a d i ng agencies. Quota l im i t a t i o ns are m a i n t a i n ed on the export of c a n n ed mu sh rooms and asparagus. The export of some (i Special r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to expo r ts and re -expo r ts f r om the expo rt p roce s s ing zones. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA foodstuffs, as well as of fertilizers, logs, cement, steel, and scrap of iron and steel, is either prohibited or sus- pended. There are ceilings on the export of textiles and stainless flatware to specified countries. M anu f a c tu r e rs who use impor ted raw ma te r ia ls to produce goods for export are, a f ter export of the pro- cessed goods, re funded various charges imposed on such raw ma te r ia ls. These charges inc lude impo rt du t ies, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some p re fe ren t ial trea tment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the produc t ion of goods for expor t, p rov ided th at the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; com- plete exemption f rom the tax is not granted, however. With m inor exceptions, exporters are requ i red to sur- render exchange earnings accruing f rom exports imme- diately a f ter their collection. Most exports to any per- m i t ted des t ina t ion may be made on a con s ignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not de fe r red for more than 180 days f rom sh ipmen t. Subject to approval, bona fide g i f ts and commodity samples up to the va lue of US$200 may be sent abroad. When l e av ing the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products va lued up to US$500 w i thout p rov id ing evidence that they have su r rende red fo re ign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requ iremen ts app l icab le to pro- ceeds f rom invisibles are generally s im i lar to those appli- cable to export proceeds. In teres t, e a rn ing s, and p ro f i ts on investments made by Chinese investors outside the coun t ry, and o r ig ina l ly approved by the I n v e s tm e nt Commission of the M in is t ry of Economic A f f a i r s, must be surrendered to the banks; otherwise, ea rn ings may be re ta ined. Pr iva te inwa rd rem i t tances may be r e t a in ed by the recipients for deposit on a fo re ign exchange accoun t. Travelers may br ing in any amount of fo re ign cur- rency and e i ther hold or su r render i t; the am o u nt imported must be declared upon en t ry. The impo rt of domestic bankno tes expressed in new Ta iwan dollars is l im i ted to NT$4,000 for each t rave le r; a l icense f r om the M in is try of Finance is requ ired for im p o r t i ng a larger amoun t. Capital Investments by nonres iden ts ( inc lud ing overseas Chi- nese) may be made in cap i tal e q u i pm e nt or raw ma te- rials, or through the t ran s fer of fo re ign currency to the Republic of Ch ina. In accordance w i th the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954 (as amended in 1959 and 1968) and the Statute for the Encou ragement of Inves tment of September 10, 1960 (as amended in 1965, 1967, 1970, and 1974 ), new fore ign inves tmen ts approved by the au tho r i t ies are gua ran teed ( 1) u n r e- stricted t ran s fer of net annual profits or earned interest; 126 (2) repatriation of capital, inc lud ing reinvested earnings, two years a f ter completion of the inves tment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the invested funds; ( 3) the right to re-export invested cap i tal in its original fo rm; (4) favorable treat- ment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricul- tu ral land for indus tr ial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immu- n i ty f r om exp rop r ia t ion for 20 years where the foreign inves tment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total inves tmen t. In add i t ion, foreign investments are granted t r e a tm ent at least as favorab le as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of fo re ign inve s tmen ts prov ide for add i t ional bene f i ts in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- men ts by nonres iden ts must be made in en terpr ises conducive to the economic and social development of the c o u n t r y, such as m in ing, commun ica t ions, and m anu- f a c t u r i ng for domestic needs. Preference is given to fo r e ign inves to rs who in tend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonres iden ts ( in c lud ing overseas Chinese) who intend to make inves tmen ts in Ta iwan stocks and wish to take advan tage of privileges provided under the fore ign invest- ment laws, as described above, must ob ta in approval f r om the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i r s. Purchases and sales of stocks and bonds by non res iden ts must be made th rough the in te rmed ia ry of registered brokers, such as the Trust Depar tment of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Depa r tment of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made ou ts ide the Repub l ic of Ch ina in the f o rm of technical know-how, sem if in ished products, locally manu fac tu red e q u i pm e n t, and r em i t t an c es of fo r e ign exchange. Appli- cations that receive sympa the t ic t rea tment include those which would assist in assur ing a stable supply of raw ma te r ia ls for domestic indus tr ies. Portfolio inves tment abroad by res iden ts who are p r iva te persons is not nor- m a l ly pe rm i t ted. Chinese na t iona ls who wish to em igra te, and foreign persons who have se t t led in the Repub l ic of Ch ina and wish to r e t u rn to the ir na t ive coun tr ies, are not accorded any t r a n s f er f a c i l i t i es in respect of proceeds f r om the l iqu ida t ion of their assets in the Republic, other than an exchange allowance of US$2,000 for each Chinese emi- g r an t. Persons outside the Repub l ic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Ta iwan do l lars on account of dowr ies, inher i tances, g i f t s, and so fo r th, are not no rma l ly gran ted the right of t r a n s f e r r i ng them f r om the Repub l ic. Cer ta in inflows of short-term capital are restricted. Domestic banks are perm i t ted to hold short-term deposits (w i th m a tu r i t i es up to three mon th s) w i th their cor- respondents but they are not no rma l ly permitted to make ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution longer-term time deposits abroad or to acquire fore ign securities. Gold Producers of gold mu st sell the ir ou tput to o rn am en t al gold processors (registered goldsmiths, s i lve r sm i th s, and jewe le rs ), through the Central Trust of Ch ina; gold delivered to the Cen tral Trust for r e f i n i ng mu st have a fineness of 0.995 or better. Any newly produced gold that rema ins unsold must be kept in the custody of insti- tu t ions spec i f ica l ly des igna ted by the G o v e r nm e n t; at present, o n ly the Central Trust is so designated. Other res iden ts may hold gold in any f o rm and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is p roh ib i ted. Travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of gold, wh ich must be dec lared upon en t ry if its we ight exceeds 5 sh ih l i a n g, i.e., 156.25 grams; other impor ts of gold are und er con- trol. Residents may f ree ly take out gold in the fo rm of jewe l ry, provided that its we ight does not exceed 2 shih l iang, i.e., 62.5 grams. O therw ise, exports of gold and gold jewe l ry by t rave le rs a re not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t e d. REPUBLIC OF CHINA Changes during 1976 January 1. An export a l lo tment system was in tro- duced govern ing textile sales to the EEC and designed to reduce the adverse impact of the import quota system imposed by the EEC in 1975. January 25. The 50 per cent reduction of impo rt du t ies on crude pe tro leum and petroleum products was ex tended for ano ther year. January 27. Revised customs regu la t ions pe rm i t ted new and unu sed personal effects up to a va lue of US$100 to be brought in by passengers free of duty. February 25. The 50 per cent reduc t ion of im p o rt duties on corn was extended for another year. February 27. Several paper and cloth products were de le ted f r om the l ist of commod i t ies wh ich can o n ly be imported f rom Western Europe, the Un i t ed States, and Canada. August 11. The export of wheat that had e a r l i er been impor ted for processing in to f lour was pe rm i t ted und er spec ial app rova l. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of Co lomb ia is the Co lomb ian Peso. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the cen tral b a n k) or the au thor ized banks in the off ic ial ma rke t — the exchange c e r t i f i c a te m a rk e t — in which the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1976, the average selling ra te in the ce r t i f ica te m a rk et was Col$36.34 per US$1. The peso equ iva lent of the Gov- e rnmen t 's exchange receipts f rom the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the central bank's accoun t ing ra te of Col$35 per US$1; the Gove rnment purchases exchange for all pub l ic debt paymen ts and other exp end i tu r es i n c l u d ed in the na t ional budget at the same exchange rate. There are also ce r ta in other e f fec t ive exchange ra tes, some of which result f rom a system of tax credit certificates granted on export proceeds. The d i f f e r ent exchange rates and the types of t ran sac t ion to which they app ly are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1976, the fluctuating b u y i ng rate for proceeds f r om coffee exports ( a f t er t a k i ng in to account an 18 per cent exchange t a x) was Col$29.78 per US$1, and that for most other exports about Col$36.35 per US$1. In principle, all imports are paid for at the cer- tificate ma rket rate, and all payments and receipts in respect of cu r rent inv is ib les and capital also take place at that rate. The Bank of the Republic s tands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate ma rket se l l ing rate ru l ing on the date of issue, exchange w a r r a n ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro). These wa r ran ts, which are expressed in U.S. do l lars and have a m a t u r i ty of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged, provided that the holder presents an exchange license, for exchange cer t if ica tes ( for the same amount of fore ign currency and free of cha rge ). Within their period of va l id i ty, wa r ran ts may also be sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic for pesos, at the certificate market buy ing rate ru l ing on the date of repurchase. Wa r ran ts bear in terest at 7 per cent per a n n um. Warrants held un t il a f ter ma tu r i ty cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted in to exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate ma rket rate ru l ing on the ma tu r i ty date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Co lomb ian I n s t i t u te of Foreign Trade ( I N C OM E X ). Exchange for paymen ts must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commerc ial banks, w i th an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified cu r rent transac t ions, when made through credit 128 in s t i tu t ion s, do not require prior exchange licenses. The Mone ta ry Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budge t. It also establishes p r io r i t ies w i th in that budget for the de l ivery of exchange, a f ter setting aside the am o u n ts necessary to cover the obligations of the B a nk of the R epub l ic and to service the ex te rnal debt of the pub l ic agencies and the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers. Overa ll impo rt and export policy is de term ined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls imports t h at a re sub ject to p r ior l i c en s ing. The N a t ion al Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives con- c e r n i ng d irect inve s tment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the N a t i o n al P l a n n i ng Depa r tmen t, wh ich eva lua tes new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the R epub l ic keeps an a c coun t ing record both of fo re ign inve s tment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of fo re ign capital as well as the t r a n s f er of p ro f i ts, d iv idend s, comm iss ions, and roya l t ies for t radema rk s, pa ten ts, etc. The Superin- t end en cy of Exchange Con t ro l, wh ich is an au tonomous agency repo r t ing to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns and is responsible for app ly ing pena l t ies for any v io l a t ion of the exchange regu la t ions. Prescription of Currency The Mon e t a ry Board establishes the list of currenc ies w h i ch it accepts for exchange su r render and provides for impo rt paymen ts. Payments and receipts are nor- m a l ly e f fec ted in U.S. dollars, but impor ters and export- ers are also free to use Belgian f rancs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and Venezuelan bolivares. Settlements with B u l g a r i a, the G e rm an Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Po land, Roman ia, Spain, and Yugoslavia for commercial t ransac t ions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance w i th the p rov is ions of the re levant bilateral payments agreement. Paymen ts between Colombia and Argen t ina, Bolivia, B raz i l, Chile, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela are made th rough accounts m a in t a in ed w i th in the f r am ewo rk of the LAFTA mu l t i la teral clearing system. There is also a reciprocal credit agreement with Cuba. Nonresident Accounts Cred it es tab l ishmen ts are au tho r ized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency f rom physical or j u r i d i c al persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any fore ign cur- rency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colom- b ian cu r rency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must ob ta in au tho r iza t ion f rom the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited impo rt l is t. Impo r ts are classi- fied as either goods whose impo rt is subject to p r ior licensing by INCOMEX, or goods that may be impor ted freely w i thout license although subject to reg is t ra t ion. In the la t ter category, there are a global f ree list app l ica- ble to all coun t r ie s, a N a t i o n al Free List app l icab le to LAFTA coun t r ies only, and a f r ee list app l icab le to Andean Common Ma rket coun t r i es only. L ibe ra l ized imports on the global f ree list corresponded to over one half of reimbursable imports in 1976.1 All impo rt registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to de term ine whe ther local subs t i tu tes are available. Import licenses for ce r ta in i tems are not normally issued; these inc lude a rms and h a b i t - f o rm i ng drugs, ce r ta in food s tu f f s, ce r ta in textiles and ga rmen ts, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods. Prior reg is tra t ion of the impo rt t ran sac t ions at INCOMEX is required for all impo r ts other than those classified as "minor impor ts" or sh ipmen ts w i th an f .o .b. value of less than US$100. Reg is t ra t ion is not au to- matically accepted by INCOMEX and may be rejected. The charge for impo rt r eg i s t r a t ion is Col$200 p lus a consular invo ice tax of 1 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue (with a m i n im um of US$4 ). Advance impo rt paymen ts deposits (depositos anticipados para pago de import a- ciones) in Colombian currency of 30 per cent of the registered amount must be made w i th an au thor ized bank before customs clearance in order to ob ta in exchange licenses. The advance impo rt paymen ts deposit is calculated on the total v a lue of the goods, at the current selling ra te for exchange certificates. In exchange, importers receive nonnego t iab le, interest- free deposit certificates for fore ign paymen ts (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior} denom ina ted in foreign currency and va l id for 24 months. These may be used to purchase fore ign exchange for partial pay- ment of the import transac t ion (w i th in any m ax imum payment te rms specified for the type of transac t ion concerned by the Mone ta ry Bo a rd ). Unu s ed ce r t i f i- cates may be sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic at the original exchange rate in the cer t if ica te ma rke t. The following are exempt f rom advance import pay- ments deposits: cer ta in non re imbu r sab le impo r ts; imports brought in to Colombia under special impo r t- export arrangements (the Vallejo P l a n ); foods tuffs for direct consumption; direct imports for the m i l i t a ry and the police; imports f rom Eastern Europe and Spain (when financed under Mone tary Board Resolution lThe term reimbursable impor ts genera l ly covers im p o r ts f i n a n c ed from Colombia's own fore ign exchange reserves or f inanced w i th fo r- eign credit; they include imports under bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts. Nonreimbursable imports consist ma in ly of aid impo r ts u n d er g r a n t s, commodities con s t i tu t ing pa rt of a d i rect inv e s tm en t, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. COLOMBIA No. 75 of 1973 or the Spanish revolving f u n d ); imports f rom coun t r ies with which reciprocal credit arrange- men ts are in force (LAFTA countries and the Domini- can Repub l ic ); books, newspapers, and magazines; and capital goods. A prior exchange license issued by the Exchange Office is required for payments for imports. Most re imbursab le impor ts are subject to max imum payment te rms; these gene ra l ly are six months for consumer goods and raw ma ter ia ls and three years or five years for cap i tal goods. Import du t ies are calculated at the "Ministry of F inance exchange rate" ( the average selling rate for exchange ce r t i f ica tes for the previous mon th, as deter- m ined by the M in is try of F inance ). In addition to customs du t ies, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c . i . f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt f rom th is tax are impo r ts by public entities; goods of LAFTA o r ig in; impor ts under the Va l le jo P lan; d ip loma t ic, con- su la r, and s im i lar impo r t s; g i f t s; and impor ts destined for the f r ee port of San Andres y Prov idenc ia or effec ted th rough the port of Leticia. Impo r ts are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c . i .f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ord inary budget of the Na t ional Govern- m e n t, and a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f .o .b. value. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are made at the exchange ce r t i f ica te rate. In principle, all paymen ts for invisibles are sub ject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to o f f ic ia l ly established priorities de term ined by the Monetary Board; however, the Bank of the Republic may make paymen ts abroad on behalf of credit i n s t i t u t i o ns without prior exchange license, and commer- c ial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also t rans fer without prior approval pay- ments for certain other current invisibles ( in c lud ing bank ing commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, and the mon th ly allowances of students s tudy ing abroad w i th gov e rnm ent suppor t) and for the service on regis- tered fo re ign loans taken up by the pr iva te sector. Pay- ments for travel abroad are limited to US$60 a person a day, not to exceed US$2,100 a year; this l im it may be raised to US$200 a day and US$18,000 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country. Transfers to professionals and technicians unde r tak ing courses abroad are generally restricted to US$450 a mon th for up to 12 months, wh i le for other students the ce i l ings vary f rom US$200 to US$300 a month, depend- ing on the cost of l iv ing in the country concerned. Rem i t tances for the support of relatives abroad are l im i ted to US$250 a mon th for each beneficiary. The Exchange Office, however, is empowered to grant larger allocations. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colom- 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA bia for a period not exceeding three mon ths may, on leav ing the coun t ry, purchase fore ign currency not exceeding US$60 on presen ta t ion of the ir boa rd ing pass. A rem i t tance tax of 12 per cent is app l icab le to a n um- ber of cu r rent paymen t s; for t r a n s f e rs of p ro f i t s, the tax is 20 per cent. Co lomb ian n a t i o n a ls and res ident f o r e i g n e rs a re requ i red to pay a t r a v el tax of Col$500 wh en ev er they leave the coun t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts of c rude o il and c e r t a in o ther c omm o d i t i es a re p roh ib i t ed, and expor ts of c e r t a in f o o d s t u f fs a re sub ject to quo tas. Expor ts of c e r t a in o ther i t em s, such as beef, a re reserved for I D EM A. No expo rt l icen ses a re requ i red. P r ior app l ica t ion for reg i s t ra t ion, however, is requ i red for a ll exports except crude o i l, samp les, and Co lomb ian p roduc ts in non comm e r c i al q u a n t i t i e s. If the app l i c a t ion meets a ll legal r equ i r em en t s, app roval is s tamped on the a p p l i c a t i on f o rm, i.e., r eg i s t r a t ion is g ran ted. When reg i s te r ing an export t r an s a c t ion, expor t- ers must provide INCOM EX w i th e i ther a personal gua r- an tee in pesos ( b ut w i t h o ut d epo s i t ing any f u n d s) or a b ank g u a r a n t ee co r r e spond ing to 20 per cent of the reg is te red am o u n t, c a l cu l a t ed at the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce exchange ra te, to en su re t h at the proceeds w i ll be su r- rende red to the B a nk of the R epub l i c. The per iods for s u r r e n d e r i ng export proceeds n o rm a l ly a re as f o l l ow s: ( 1) for co f fee, w i t h in 20 days f r om the d a te of reg i s t ra- t i on of the expo r t; and (2) for o ther goods, g en e r a l ly w i t h in 270 days of r e g i s t r a t i o n. Howeve r, longer t e rms are p e rm i t t ed for goods sold on a comm i s s ion bas is, c a p i t al goods, and other goods th at n o rm a l ly r equ i re more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Repub l ic is empowered in c e r t a in cases to re ta in a po r t ion of the exchange proceeds su r- rendered by the expor ter of any product to repay debts for impo r ts und er the Va l le jo P lan in cu r r ed by the exporter concerned. A ll exchange proceeds f rom expor ts, except those f r om the export of c rude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be su r rende red to the Bank of the Repub l ic; ECOPETROL, however, is per- m i t t ed to r e t a in pa rt of i ts export proceeds ab road for the s e t t l em ent of i ts impo r ts. On s u r r e n d e r i ng the ir expo rt proceeds t o > - t he B a nk of the R epub l i c, expo r te rs of commod i t i e s, o ther t h an co f fee, raw ca t t le hides, or pe t ro leum and p e t ro l eum p roduc ts receive tax c red it c e r t i f i c a t es (certificados dc abono tributario or CATs) in an amo unt co r re spond ing to a specified percentage of the to tal earn ings sur- rendered, converted at the M in i s t ry of Finance exchange rate. This ra t io is Mo of 1 per cent, 5 per cen t, or 7 per cent,2 depend ing on the commod i ty; the rates are cal- culated on domestic value added for exports und er the Vallejo P lan. These certificates, which are f ree ly nego- tiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are a Changed to 8 per cent with effect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1977. 130 accepted at par by tax offices three or six months a f ter issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The su r render of fore ign currency earned by exports is c a r r i ed out by exchang ing the fore ign currency for ex ch ange ce r t i f ica tes th at are negotiable in the bankers' m a r k e t. The ce r t i f ica tes have a va l id i ty of five to ten day s, a f t er wh i ch they mu st be surrendered to the Bank of the R e p u b l ic at 90 per cent of the lowest ce r t i f ica te r a te quo ted by the Bank in the preceding week. M i n i m um su r r end er prices for coffee, banana s, and a tew o ther expor ts are set f r om t ime to t ime by the M o n e t a ry Boa rd. Exports of coffee ( o t h er th an soluble co f fee) :{ are sub ject to the f o l l ow i ng r egu l a t ion s: ( 1) A m i n i m um su r render price (reintegro) is fixed af ter deduc t ion for f re ight and insurance, at US$307.60 per 70 -k i log ram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in fore ign exchange at the ra te of 18 per cent ad va lorem. Of this t a x, 4 pe rcen tage po in ts are pa id to the Na t ional Coffee F u nd w h i le the r em a ind er provides revenue for the T r e a s u r y 's Special Exchange Accoun t, of which the net p r o d u ct f o rms a con t r ibu t ion to the n a t ion al budget. (3) E x p o r t e rs m u st either su r r end er in the f o rm of u n t r e a t ed co f fee to the N a t i o n al Fede ra t ion of Coffee G row e rs and w i t h o ut p a ym e nt the equ iv a l ent of 80 per cent of the v o l ume of excelso co f fee th at they wish to expo rt (retention cafetera) or pay the Federa t ion the peso e q u i v a l e n t. (4) Expo r ts of coffee are subject to an a d d i t i o n al tax of 6 per cent ad va lo rem (pasilla y ritio t a x ); the tax mu st be pa id, e i ther in k ind or in pesos, to the Fede ra t ion. (5) Expor ters receive Coffee Sav ings Bonds w i th a face va lue of Col$4 per k i logram expo r ted; these bonds bear interest at 18 per cent per a n n um and have a m a t u r i ty of three years. (6) A com- m i t t ee composed of the M in is ters of Finance and Agri- c u l t u re and the M a n a g i ng Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buy ing price for export-type co f f e e, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange rece ip ts f r om inv is ib les must be sur- rende red; they are converted, in principle, at the cer- t i f ica te ma rket buy ing ra te. Receipts in excess of US$500 must be reg is tered. If the amount surrendered exceeds US$1,000, exchange ce r t i f ica tes ra ther than pesos are g iven for the excess. Banks requ i re the prior a p p r o v al of the c en t r al b ank to accept s u r r e n d er in excess of US$20 ,000 for each t r a n s a c t i o n. Capital A ll inwa rd and ou twa rd cap i tal t ran s fe rs a re effected at the ce r t i f ica te m a rk et rate. A ll fo r e ign i n v e s tm e nt in Co lomb ia, a ll new fo re ign loan s, d i rect l ines of f o r e i gn cred it ob ta ined by nonbank :? At the end of 1976, soluble co f fee was sub ject to a m i n im um sur- render price of US$6 per kilogram. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution residents,4 and the movement of capital previously im- ported (except loans prev ious ly registered u n d er Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) m u st be regis- tered w i th the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Repub l ic .5 Capita] impo r ts also r equ i re pr ior app roval by the N a t ion al P l a n n i ng D ep a r tm ent in accordance w i th d irec t ives issued by the N a t i o n al Counc il for Eco- nom ic and Social Policy; cap i tal for the pe t ro leum indu s- t ry or for other m in e r al exp lo ra t ion in a d d i t i on requ i res approval by the M i n i s t ry of M ines and Ene rgy. Cap i tal reg is t ra t ion en t i t les the inves tor to export p ro f i ts and to repa tr ia te capital at the certificate m a rk et rate on cer ta in cond i t ions spec if ied in Decree No. 1900 of Septem- ber 15, 1973. The t r a n s f er of p ro f i ts is l im i t ed to 14 per cent of the net c ap i t al v a l ue in any one y e ar ( b e g i n n i ng w i th p ro f i ts ea rned in 1968 ), except for p ro f i ts r e s u l t i ng from inv e s tm en ts of ou t s t and ing impo r t an ce or invo lv- ing special r isks in v iew of the c i r cum s t an c es p r e v a i l i ng in the i n t e r n a t i o n al money m a rk e t. If in any year the ea rn ings r em i t t ed are less t h an 14 per cen t, the b a l an ce may be rem i t ted in subsequent years; whe re the p ro f i ts were ob ta ined ( a nd not r em i t t e d) p r ior to the c om i ng into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the add i- tional r em i t t an c es mu st not exceed 3 per cent a yea r. New inv e s tm en ts may be g r an t ed e x em p t i o ns f r om impo rt d u ty and f r om any adv an ce depo s it and im p o rt license r equ i r em en t s. Cap i tal inves ted in the p e t ro l eum indus t ry is sub j e ct to special ru l es and to c o n t r a c t u al pro- visions. Fo l low ing a t r a n s i t i o n al per iod e n d i ng on June 30, 1978, a ll fo r e ign b a n ks and t h e ir b ranches must have Co lomb i an m a j o r i ty p a r t i c i p a t i o n. N ew d i rect fore ign i n v e s tm e nt in b ank s, i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i e s, and other f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns is re s t r ic ted to inv e s to rs f r om Andean Pact member c o u n t r i es and to "na t iona l" or "mixed" compan ie s. Fore ign p a r t i c i p a t i on is a lso res tr ic ted in new or es tab l ished c om p a n i es engaged in the i n t e r n a t i o n al resa le of im p o r t ed and d om e s t ic p roduc ts or in t o u r i sm - r e l a t ed a c t i v i t i e s. Foreign loans con t rac ted by p r iva te Co lomb ian ind i- v idua ls or f i rms a re g e n e r a l ly sub j e ct to a m i n i m um m a tu r i ty of f ive yea rs and to an in t e r e st ra te c e i l i ng of 2 per cent over the New Yo rk p r ime ra te or the L o n d on in te rbank o f f e r ed r a t e. Such loans n o r m a l ly a re per- mitted on ly wh en m i n i ng c om p a n i es a re i n v o l v ed or ju r id ical pe rsons who a re e s t ab l i sh ed in C o l om b ia and a re c o n t r i b u t i ng to the c o n s t r u c t i on of p u b l ic wo rks of na t ional in t e r e st as r e p r e s e n t a t i v es of f o r e i gn f i rms. Special r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn the pe r iods for wh i ch r e s id ent banks m ay p rov ide im p o rt f in an c ing f r om f o r e i gn cu r- rency borrowed ab road. Fo re ign loans for n a t i o n al or gove rnmen tal en t i t i es in excess of Co l$10 m i l l i on or * Suppliers' c r e d i ts of a on c e - fo r - a ll n a t u re also r e q u i re r e g i s t r a t i o n; their r e p a ym e nt is a u t h o r i z ed by the ex ch ange l icen se c o v e r i ng the relevant im p o rt t r a n s a c t i o n. Such c r e d i ts a re sub j e ct to an i n t e r e st rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New Yo rk p r ime ra te or the London i n t e r b a nk o f f e r ed r a t e. 3 At the end of 1976, the r e g i s t r a t i on of c e r t a in f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e n ts and of o ld c o n t r a c ts i n v o l v i ng p a y m e nt of r o y a l t i e s, c omm i s s i o n s, e tc ., had not yet been comp le ted. COLOMBIA US$500,000 r equ i re prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s t ry of F i n a n ce and the N a t ion al P l a n n i ng Depa r tmen t. For lo ans to the Gov e rnm en t, or gua ran teed by the Govern- men t, the fo l low ing are also requ i red: pr ior au tho r iza- t ion by the N a t ion al Counc il for Economic and Social Po l icy and by the Mone ta ry Board, pr ior consu l ta t ion w i th the I n t e r p a r l i am e n t a ry Comm i t tee on Pub l ic Cred i t, and ex post approval by the Pres ident of the R epub l i c. Con t rac ts invo lv ing roya l t ies, comm i s s ion s, t r ad em a rks or pa ten ts, and s im i l ar a r r ang em en ts must be registered w i th the Exchange Office to enab le the bene f ic ia ry to m a ke t r a n s f e rs ab road. They requ i re approval by the Roya l t ies Comm i t t ee be fo re they can be registered. Co lomb ian n a t ion a ls who have inves ted abroad mu st s u r r e n d er to the Bank of the Repub l ic, at the p r ev a i l ing c e r t i f i c a te m a rk et ra te, not on ly the in teres t, p ro f i ts, comm i s s ion s, and roya l t ies but also the proceeds of the sa le or l i q u i d a t i on of the inve s tmen t. Expor ts of cap i tal by re s iden ts are res tr ic ted and such exports by p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls a re not n o rm a l ly perm i t ted. Gold N a t u r al and j u r i d i c al persons may t rade in Colombia in gold co ins for collection purposes on ly. W i th th is e x c e p t i o n, o n ly the B ank of the Repub l ic is en t i t led to pu r ch a s e, s e l l, ho ld, im p o r t, or export go ld. The Bank of the R epub l ic purchases locally produced gold at US$42 .2222 an ounce and pays 50 per cent in fo r e ign c u r r e n cy on p resen ta t ion by f o r e i gn cap i tal m i n i ng com- p a n i es of exchange l icenses e n t i t l i ng them to m a ke pay- m e n ts ab road for services, d iv idend s, cap i tal repaymen t s, taxes, etc. The r em a i n i ng 50 per cent and all paymen ts to dome s t ic p roduce rs are paid in pesos at the ce r t i f ica te m a r k et ex ch ange ra te. On s e l l i ng the ir gold to the B a nk of the R epub l i c, the p roduce rs receive tax c red it cer- t i f i c a t es e q u i v a l e nt to Vio of 1 per cent of the va lue of the gold sold on the basis of US$42 .2222 an ounce /5 The c e r t i f i c a t es he ld by the sm a ll p roduce rs a re bought by the B a nk of the R e p u b l ic in Co lomb ian pesos at the ir m a r k et v a lu e. The Bank of the R epub l ic pays producers a p r em i um to o f f set the d i f f e r e n ce between the in t e rn a- t i o n al p r ice and the o f f ic ial gold p r ice. In add i t ion, the Bank of the Repub l ic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the to tal p a ym e nt received by the m i n e r. The B ank of the Repub l ic makes domes t ic sales of gold for i n d u s t r i al use e i ther d irect or th rough the Co lomb i an M i n i ng Association at a pr ice equ iva lent to the ave rage quo t a t ion in gold ma rke ts abroad d u r i ng the p rev ious mon th; th is price is t ran s la ted in to pesos at the p r e v a i l i ng se l l ing ra te of exchange ce r t i f ica tes on the da te of sale. Impo r ts and exports of gold are a monopo ly of the Bank of the Repub l ic; impor ts of non- mon e t a ry gold are not no rma l ly unde r taken. r> W i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977 p r o d u c e rs received tax c red it c e r t i f i c a t es at the ra te of 8 per cen t, based on a se l l ing price of US$42 .2222 per t r oy ounce. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA The assay and ref in ing houses and the m i n i ng com- panies produc ing gold are under the supe rv is ion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In add i t ion, the m in ing companies must obtain a license f r om the Super- intendency in order to carry on the ir operations. The Bank of the Republic f r om t ime to t ime strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Resi- dents and nonresidents may free ly buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1976 January 1. The exchange tax on proceeds f r om coffee exports was reduced from 19 per cent to 18 per cent (P res iden t ial Decree No. 2374 of October 31, 1974 ). January 1. The fixed exchange ra te app l icab le to purchases of crude petroleum f rom foreign-owned com- panies in Colombia for domestic ref inery was fu r ther depreciated f r om Col$25 to Col $26 per US$1. (M o n e- ta ry Board Resolution No. 75 of December 17, 1975.) January 1. The common m i n im um ex ternal t a r i ff of the Andean Group took effect (Decree No. 2677 of December 5, 1975 of the M in i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic C red i t ). January 1. The Exchange Office was empowered to g rant exchange licenses for 95 per cent of the value of f r e ight on impo r ts and exports (M BR No. 77 of Decem- ber 17, 1975 ). January 15. The m i n im um su r render price per 70- k i log r am bag of coffee was increased f r om US$117 to US$130 (MBR No. 1 ). January 19. The Gene ral D i rec to ra te of Cus toms was reo rgan ized (P res iden t ial Decree No. 075 ). January 20. The quo ta for rice exports in the first ha lf of 1976 was set at 80,000 me t r ic tons (FTC Reso- lu t ion No. 3 ). January 20. Prior licenses were no longer required for the impo rt of len t i ls (FTC Resolution No. 4 ). January 21. Bills of exchange and fo re ign letters of c red it we re exemp ted f r om the s t amp tax (Law No. 2 ). January 27. INCOMEX was reorgan ized (Pres iden t ial Decree No. 151 ). January 28. The m i n t i ng of 50 k i log rams of com- m emo r a t ive gold coins was au tho r ized. The se ign iorage was e a rm a rk ed for the Bank of the Republic's Special Exchange Account (MBR No. 2 ). Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1976) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Selling 35.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of pub l ic deb t, d ip loma t ic expenses, official trave l, etc. 36.34 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All imports. All other transactions .8 Buying 29.78 (Certificate Market Rate less 18% Exchange Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee exports. 35.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conversion of Government's receipts f rom exchange tax on coffee exports. 36.32 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds f rom exports of crude oil and pe tro leum derivatives.7 Exports f rom free ports. All receipts f rom invisibles and capital t rans fe rs. 36.36 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for %o of 1% of Export Value Con- verted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Exports of cement and specified agricultural and mineral commodities ( inc lud ing m i lk and da iry products, live animals other than cattle, cereal gra ins, sugar, sulfur, emeralds and other precious stones, and gold) . » . io 38.14 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 5% of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Specified agricultural exports.9'10 38.86 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Certi- ficates for 7% of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) All other exports.9. 10,11 7 Receipts f r om exports of c rude oil by fore ign-owned compan ies need not be su r rende red. 8 D i f f e r e nt e f fec t ive ra tes arise f r om the app l ica t ion of the taxes of 12 per cent and 20 per cent collected by the Exchange Office on certain remittances. 0 Tax c red it ce r t i f ica tes t r ad ed imm ed i a t e ly a f t er issue we re quo ted at a d iscoun t. The ave rage ra te in the cer t if ica te m a rk et d u r i ng December 5, 1976-January 4, 1977 as de te rm ined by the M in is t ry of F inance was Col$35.83 per US$1. 10 Bo th the p rodu ct e l ig ib i l i ty for tax c red it ce r t i f ica tes and the rates of e n t i t l em e nt we re mod i f ied w i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. 11 Except specified exports of m anu f a c tu r ed goods, for which tax c r e d it ce r t i f ica tes are g r an t ed on the basis of value added ra ther than expo rt v a lu e; this practice resu l ts in add i t ional effec t ive exchange rates. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 28. W i th effect f rom February 1, the fixed exchange ra te for c rude p e t ro l eum was f u r t h er dep re- ciated f r om Col$26 to Col$27 per US$1 (MBR No. 5 ). January 30. W i th e f fect f r om F e b r u a ry 2, the advance impo rt deposit (consignacion) of at least 25 per cent of the registered am o u n t, which had been requ ired to ob- ta in impo rt l icenses, was abo l ished (M BR No. 6 ). By General C ircu lar No. 7 of Feb rua ry 3, the Exchange Office stressed t h at the 20 per cent g u a r a n t ee depos it requ i rement rema ined in e f f e c t. January 30. MBR No. 7 revoked MBR No. 65 of November 19, 1975. February 3. FTC Reso lu t ion No. 1 /76 was repealed and the export of sugar was su sp end ed (FTC R e s o l u t i on No. 5). February 11. Exchange a l lo c a t ions for t r a v el ab ro ad were inc reased. For pe rsons o lder t h an 12 yea rs the daily en t i t l em ent was raised to US$60, up to a l im it of US$2 ,100 a yea r. ( P r e v i o u s ly US$40 a d a y, up to a l im it of US$1,400 a y e a r, was g r an t ed to pe rsons older than 15 y e a r s .) For c h i l d r en 12 y e a rs or y o u n g e r, the daily e n t i t l em e nt was set at US$30, up to a l im it of US$1,050 a year. (P rev ious ly, there were no exchange a l loca t ions for t h at age g roup, but persons be tween 12 and 15 years of age were g ran ted US$20 a day, up to a l im it of US$700 a y e a r .) Where the j o u r n ey was cons ide red of p a r t i c u l ar na- tional b e n e f i t, the d a i ly l i m it cou ld be ra ised to US$100 (p rev ious ly US$70 ), up to a to tal of US$9,000 ( p r e v i- ously US$4 ,200) a year (MBR No. 8 ). February 12. The Exchange Off ice mod i f ied the sys- tem of global impo rt guaran tees provided for by MBR No. 14 of 1974 (G en e r al C i r c u l ar No. 9 ). February 20. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was ra ised f u r t h er f rom US$130 to US$143 (MBR No. 9 ). February 25. W i th e f fect f r om Ma rch 1, the fixed exchange ra te for crude pe t ro leum was f u r t h er dep re- ciated f rom Col$27 to Col$28 per US$1 (MBR No. 10). February 25. U n t il Feb rua ry 28, 1977 the B a nk of the Republic was au tho r ized to rediscount up to 80 per cent and up to US$50 m i l l i on of loans ex tended by credit in s t i tu t ions to Colombian res iden ts for the acqu i- sition of shares or p rope r ty r igh ts f r om fo r e ign inves- tors in all sectors des igna ted by the Exchange O f f ice, except the financial and in su r an ce sectors. The redis- counted am o u n ts were to be used by the c red it i n s t i t u- tions to de f ray the paymen ts abroad in favor of the foreign sellers. Imp lemen ta t ion of the f a c i l i ty was dele- gated to the Bank of the Republic and the Exchange Office (MBR No. 1 1 ). Im p l em e n t i ng gu ide l ines were issued by Regu la tory Circular No. 31 of Ap r il 20 of the Credit Depar tmen t. February 25. W i th effect f r om March 1, expor ters of coffee who ob ta ined fo re ign p re f inanc ing had to com- plete the export t r an s a c t ion w i t h in 30 days (p rev ious ly COLOMBIA w i t h in 60 days) of the sale of fore ign exchange to the B ank of the Repub l ic. This term could be extended by ano ther 30 days (prev ious ly another 60 days) upon r e c omm e n d a t i on by the N a t i o n al Federation of Coffee G rowe rs and on subm iss ion to the Bank of the Repub l ic of ev idence of coffee inventories suff ic ient to cover the p r e f in an c ed t r a n s a c t i on (MBR No. 1 3 ). February 25. With effect f rom March 1, the Bank of the Repub l ic wou ld d e f in i t iv e ly buy any fo re ign exchange de r ived f r om loans to p re f inance expor ts of meat and t ex t i l es at the ce r t i f ica te ma rket ra te p reva i l ing at the t ime the exchange was purchased (MBR No. 1 2 ). March 1. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Public Credit mod i f i ed the Mon e t a ry Board's con t rol powers over the c o n t r a c t i ng of fo re ign debt o r ig in a t ing f r om cash loans and impo r ts of goods, services, and cap i tal (Decree No. 4 0 4 ). If such indeb tedne ss was in comp a t ib le w i th the G o v e r nm e n t 's exchange and mon e t a ry policies, the Mon e t a ry Board w as empowered to ( 1) f ix m a t u r i ty te rms for impo rt paymen ts, (2) de term ine the po int in t ime f r om wh ich such m a t u r i t i es wou ld be coun ted, ( 3) regu la te the m a t u r i ty and conditions for issu ing of letters of c r e d i t, and (4) regu la te the m a t u r i ty te rms of cred it g r an t ed for the p a ym e nt of impo r ts. In add i t ion, the Decree ob l iged the Exchange Office to report m o n t h ly to the M o n e t a ry Board the am o u nt and n a t u re of impo rt l i a b i l i t i e s, and to i n f o rm the Sup e r in t end en cy of Exchange Con trol about any i n f r a c t i o ns of the regu la- t ions governing ex te rnal indebtedness. March 1. A reciprocal c red it ag reement w i th Cuba came in to effect. March 3. The t a r i f fs for ex t r ao rd in a ry customs ser- vices we re doubled (Decree No. 413 of the M in i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic C r e d i t ). March 8. The M i n i s t ry of Econom ic Deve lopment t igh t en ed the r equ i r em en ts for the use of dome s t ica l ly produced pa r ts in the assembly i n d u s t ry (Decree No. 434 ). March 10. W i th effect f r om March 1 1, the f o r e i gn bo r row ing program under MBR No. 73 of October 2 1, 1974 (as am e n d e d) was suspended, wh ich had pe rm i t ted p r iva te sector producers of indus tr ial and m in ing p roduc ts for export and of a g r i c u l t u r al goods, as we ll as the tou r ist indu s t ry, to f inance abroad their wo rk ing c a p i t al and inv e s tm ent cap i tal requ i remen t s. The Exchange Office was au tho r ized to pe rm it the sale of fo re ign exchange for advance repayment of such loans (MBR No. 1 4 ). The Exchange Office c lar if ied on March 17 that extension of the loans, w i th or without change of creditor, con t inued to be possible, subject to a m i n im um ma tu r i ty of five years (General Circular No. 1 9 ). March 10. The Fondo de Promocion de Exporta- ciones (PROEXPO) was authorized to finance the wo rk- ing cap i tal requ i remen ts of enterprises p roduc ing, stor- ing, or s e l l ing meat and tobacco for export. At the same t ime the Bank of the Republic and the commerc ial banks 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA ceased to accept advance exchange surrender for the f in an c ing of exports of meat and tobacco (MBR No. 15). March 10. W i th effect f rom March 15, the Exchange Office was au thor ized to g r ant exchange licenses for the payment of c e r t a in tickets sold by fo re ign air and sea t r an spo rt compan ies (MBR No. 16 ). March 17. The FTC revoked its Re so lu t ion No. 507 75, thus su sp end ing the export of cottonseed cake (Reso- lu t ion No. 8 ). March 24. W i th re t roac t ive e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1976, t a r i ff reduc t ions were in t rodu c ed on a n um b er of mechan ical equ ipm ent i tems if impor ted f r om the A n d e an G r o up coun t r ies (Decree No. 557 of the M i n- i s t ry of F in an ce and Pub l ic C r e d i t ). March 24. MBR No. 17 r e c ap i tu l a t ed the r egu l a t ions gove rn ing the f in an c ing of reimbursable impor ts through c r ed it i n s t i t u t i o ns in Colombia. The m a x im um te rm r em a i n ed at s ix mon ths for p roduc ts for imm e d i a te use, i .e ., consumer goods and raw ma te r ia ls (18 mon ths for books and o ther p r in ted m a t t e r) and at th ree years for c a p i t al goods (except where the Foreign Trade Counc il p e rm i t t ed a m a x im um te rm of f ive y e a r s ). These t e rms were applicable as f rom the date of the b i ll of lad ing ( t he da te of cus toms c lea rance for impo r ts f r om indu s- t r i al and comm e r c i al f r ee zones and for books and o ther p r i n t ed m a t t e r ). They could g en e r a l ly not be ex tended, except for 30 days or less, sub ject to app rov al by the Exchange Office. The in te re st rates on impo rt f in an c ing r em a i n ed f r e e ly nego t iab le be tween b a n ks and im p o r t e r s. (See also MBRs Nos. 5 2 / 76 and 64 /76, be low .) Im p l em e n t i ng gu ide l ines were issued in Exchange Off ice Gene ral C i rcu lar No. 24. The Sup e r in t end en cy of Banks subsequen t ly in troduced a week ly repo r t ing r e q u i r em e nt f or c red it i n s t i t u t i o ns r e g a r d i ng im p o rt financing ope ra t ions (C i r c u l ar No. DG-075 of Au- gust 20, 1976 ). March 24. W i th effect f rom Ap r il 1, the fixed exchange ra te for c rude pe t ro leum was f u r t h er depre- c ia ted f r om Col$28 to Col$29 per US$1 (MBR No. 1 8 ). March 24. PROEXPO was au tho r ized for one year to use the r em a i n i ng ba lance of the one -year d iscount l i ne of US$10 m i l l i on und er MBR No. 18 /75 to ex tend c r ed it l ines to f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns loca ted in coun t r ies of the Andean Group, in order to finance exports to those coun t r ie s. The fo r e ign f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns we re to pay in te re st at 7 per cent per a n n um, of w h i ch s ix po in ts were e a rm a rk ed for the Special Exchange Account and one point for the Co lomb ian i n t e rm e d i a ry c red it in s t i tu t ion. M a t u r i ty and o ther te rms of the loans were to be prescribed by PROEXPO, a c t ing in c o n j u n c t i on w i th the Bank of the Republic (MBR No. 19 ). March 31. The m in imum su r render price for co f fee expor ts was increased f r om US$143 .00 to US$153 .50, w i th e f fect f r om Ap r il 1 (MBR No. 2 0 ). March 31. The Exchange Office announ c ed that pub- lic sector agencies (except public or mixed en te rp r i se s) 134 could ob ta in fore ign exchange for service payments abroad upon presentation of ce r t i f ica t ion f rom the cred i tor concerned (General C ircu lar No. 20 ). With effect f r om A p r il 12, public and mixed enterprises could also ava il themselves of this s imp l if ied procedure (Ex ch ange Office General Circular No. 25 ). April 6. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee expor ts was increased f r om US$153.50 to US$170.00 w i th effect f rom Ap r il 7. Also with effect f rom Apr il 7, an exchange ra te of Col$28 per US$1 was established for the p rov is ional su r r end er of coffee export proceeds. The peso p aym ent to the coffee expor ter at the t ime of actual su r r end er con t inued to be based on the cer t if ica te ma rket ra te on the day of advance su r render and rema ined net of the 18 per cent tax on such proceeds. Any tem- porary suspensions in the reg is tra t ion of coffee contracts by INCOMEX wou ld not count towa rd the 30-day l im it for con t r a ct f u l f i l lm e nt set by MBR No. 13/76 (MBR No. 2 1 ). April 9. The m i n im um su r r end er price for coffee expo r ts was raised f r om US$170 to US$193, w i th effect f r om A p r il 12 (MBR No. 2 2 ). April 9. W i th effect f r om Ap r il 12, the qu an t i ty of co f fee t h at must be su r rende red to the N a t ion al Federa- t ion of Co f fee Growers was increased f rom 30 per cent to 46.5 per cent of export vo lume (Decree No. 699 of the M i n i s t ry of Finance and Public C r ed i t ). April 20. The export of cowh ides and processed cow- h ide lea ther was suspended (FTC Resolution No. 9 ). April 28. MBR No. 23 abo l ished the fixed exchange r a te of Col$29 per US$1 for crude pe t ro leum, with e f fect f r om May 1, when the ce r t i f ica te m a rk et exchange ra te became app l icab le. May 4. FTC Resolution No. 11 exempted many p rodu c ts f r om impo rt l icen s ing. Most of these were l u x u ry f o o d s t u f fs and beverages. May 6. The m i n im um su r r end er price for coffee expo r ts was increased f r om US$193 to US$207, with e f f e ct f r om May 7 (MBR No. 2 4 ). MBRs Nos. 25 and 26 in t rodu c ed f u r t h er increases to US$231 (w i th e f f e ct f r om M ay 18) and US$245 (w i th e f fect f r om M ay 2 8 ). May 6. As f r om May 7, the co f fee su r r end er requ ire- ment was increased f r om 46.5 per cent to 57 per cent of export vo lume (Decree No. 853 of the M in is try of F i n a n ce and Pub l ic C r e d i t ). May 18. A numb er of goods, mo s t ly tex t i les and m a c h i n e ry i tem s, were exemp ted f r om impo rt l icens ing (FTC R e so lu t ion No. 1 3 ). May 26. MBR No. 27 am end ed MBR No. 13 /76 by r edu c ing f r om 30 days to 20 days the m a x im um period for comp le t ing the export t ran sac t ion following the sale to the Bank of the R epub l ic of exchange de r ived f rom p r e f i n a n c i ng of co f fee expor ts. The m ax imum permis- sible ex ten s ion of th is period was also reduced to 20 days. On J u ne 4, the Exchange Office announced that, if the p r e f i n a n c i ng came d i rect f r om a f o r e i gn source ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and was registered w i th in 10 days fo l low ing the sale of the foreign currency, exchange could be made available for interest acc ru ing du r ing the 20 days fo l low ing the sale of the loan proceeds; this period could be ex tended for ano ther 20 days. Interest rates could not exceed those established by the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies (Gene ral Circular No. 32 ). May 26. With effect f rom May 31, the exchange allocations for foreign travel were aga in increased, to US$200 a person a day, subject to a l im it of US$18,000 a person a year, for jou rn eys deemed to bene f it the econom ic and social deve lopment of Co lomb ia (MBR No. 2 8 ). On June 3, the Exchange Office required a bank guaran tee of 30 per cent on any d a i ly amount in excess of US$100 (Gene ral C i rcu lar No. 2 8 ); the requ irement was revoked on November 23 (Gene ral C i rcu lar No. 71 ). May 26. W i th effect f r om J u ne 1, the Exchange Office was empowered to au tho r ize m i n i ng compan ies to con- tract foreign loans, provided that the project was prev i- ously approved by the M i n i s t ry of M i n i ng and Energy and that the am o u nt of the loan did not exceed 80 per cent of the total project ou t lays. The m i n i m um te rms of such loans had to s a t i s fy the l im i ts la id down in MBRs Nos. 73/74 and 50/75, as amended. At the same t ime the Exchange Office was perm i t ted to register foreign loans to cover the wo rk ing cap i tal needs of compan ies established in Colombia and u n d e r t a k i ng pub l ic projects on beha lf of foreign compan ies that were awarded tenders, provided t h at the fo re ign exchange proceeds were placed in a revo lv ing f u nd and that fo re ign exchange was sold to the B ank of the R e p u b l ic w h e n- ever domestic cu r rency was requ i red for the projects. Such work ing cap i tal loans were exempt f rom the m i n i- mum m a t u r i ty of five years es tab l ished by MBR No. 507 75 (MBR No. 2 9 ). On J u ne 15, the Exchange Off ice issued gu ide l ines for the reg is t ra t ion of both types of loans (General C i r cu l ar No. 3 7 ). June 4. The d e a d l i ne for o b t a i n i ng tax credit ce r t i f i- cates was set at six mon ths f o l l ow i ng su r r end er of the exchange. For exports invo lv ing advance s u r r e n d er of exchange, the s ix -mon th term wou ld commence w i th the exp ira t ion of the m a x im um period pe rm i t ted for the completion of the t ran sac t ion (Decree No. 1 1 15 of the Ministry of F inance and Pub l ic C r ed i t ). June 7. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was increased to US$259.25, w i th e f fect f rom June 8 (MBR No. 30 ). June 7. The coffee su r render r e q u i r em e nt was increased to 85 per cent of export v o l ume (Decree No. 1168 of the M i n i s t ry of F inance and P u b l ic C r e d i t ). June 7. The M i n i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic Credit endorsed Decision No. 6 of the Na t ional Comm i t tee of Coffee Growers of June 3, wh ich provided for the issu- ance of Coffee Savings Bonds (titulos de ahorro cafe- tero) in tended to n e u t r a l i ze in part the domestic impact of rising coffee prices (Decree No. 1167 ). The bonds COLOMBIA wou ld have a m a tu r i ty of three years and bear interest at 18 per cent per a n n um. Starting June 8, they wou ld be issued to exporters by the N a t ion al Coffee Fund in am o u n ts of Col$8 per k i log ram of coffee sold. When- ever the foreign ma rket price of coffee would rise by US$0.15 a pound over the ma rket price of June 8, add i- t i o n al Coffee Savings Bonds am o u n t i ng to 50 per cent of th at price increase wou ld be issued per k i logram of coffee sold; the r em a ind er of the price rise wou ld be reflected in an increase in the domestic price of coffee. Whenever the foreign ma rket price of coffee would fa ll by US$0.15 a pound, however, the re ten t ion quo ta and the am o u nt of Coffee Savings Bonds issued wou ld be lowered, so th at the domestic price p reva i l ing on J u ne 8 cou ld be m a i n t a i n e d. June 21. Decree No. 1239 of the M in i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic Credit in t roduced a sub s t an t i al s im p l i f i c a t i on and acce le ra t ion of the customs c learance process for im p o r t s. Decree No. 1238 of the same M i n i s t ry expanded the types of nonessen t ial documen ta t ion which cou ld be subm i t ted w i t h in 90 days of customs clearance. June 23. Goods impor ted t em p o r a r i ly or prov is ion- a l ly u n d er A r t ic les 269 to 272 of the Customs Code and s u b s e q u e n t ly cleared th rough customs became subject to the p a ym e n ts te rms of MBR No. 17/76 (MBR No. 3 1 ). June 23. MBR No. 33 consolidated and mod i f ied the regu la t ions on bank endorsements and guaran tees in domes t ic and fore ign cu r rency. Endorsemen ts and gua ran tees in fore ign cu r rency rema ined l im i t ed to the sum of pa id -up capital and reserves of the financial i n s t i t u t i on concerned. The m o n t h ly increase in endorse- m en ts and gua ran tees in fore ign cu r rency was limited to 1 per cent of the ou t s t and ing amount in excess of US$1 m i l l i on on J u ne 30 and December 31 of each yea r. Mon th ly excesses and shor tfa l ls cou ld be carried over w i th in each six-month period. In no case, how- ever, could the s ix -mon th growth exceed 6 per cent of the to tal of endo rsemen ts and guarantees in fore ign exchange at the b eg inn ing of the period. Certain opera- t ion s, such as guaran tees on export credits by PROEXPO, r em a in ed exempt f rom the l im i ta t ion s. June 30. The export quo ta for rice d u r i ng the second h a lf of 1976 was set at 150,000 me t r ic tons (FTC Reso- l u t i on No. 16 ). July 1. PROEXPO was authorized to finance outside the c red it l i ne established by MBR No. 59/72 (as am e n d e d) the wo rk ing cap i tal requ i remen ts of enter- prises p roduc ing, storing, or se l l ing textiles for export. At the same t im e, the Bank of the Republic and the comme rc ial banks ceased to accept advance exchange su r r end er for the financing of tex t i le exports (MBR No. 34 ). July 5. Decree No. 1361 of the M in is t ry of Eco- nom ic Development regu la ted the issu ing of tourism deve lopment certificates. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA July 7. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to acquire Coffee Savings Bonds f rom the credit ins t i tu- tions at face value, provided that they served to f inance (1) the acquisition of up to US$50 million of registered foreign investments in Colombia, (2) the impor ta t ion of up to US$25 million of capital goods for diversifica- tion projects or agroindustrial programs (w i th the jo int approval of the Bank of the Republic, the Na t ional Coffee Growers Federation, and INCOMEX ), or (3) the repayment of registered private foreign loans (MBR No. 35). On August 2, the Exchange Office issued guidelines on the use of Coffee Savings Bonds for fo r- eign payments (General Circular No. 45). July 7. The max imum period between advance sur- render of coffee export proceeds and the conclusion of the under ly ing transaction was fu r th er reduced f rom 20 days to 10 days. The m a x im um extension of th is period was also reduced to 10 days (MBR No. 37 ). July 8. Decree No. 1413 of the M in is t ry of F in an ce and Public Credit extended un t il June 30, 1977 the deadline for the impor ta t ion of certain mach ine ry at the reduced tariff rate of 5 per cent and added five ta r i ff items to the list concerned. The Decree carr ied fu r ther the rationalization and unification of ta r i f fs by levying a u n i f o rm duty of 20 per cent on passenger t ranspo rt vehicles valued at not more than US$2,000 f.o.b. ex factory. July 13. The export of sugar was resumed. The quo ta for the second half of 1976 was set at 120,000 me tr ic tons of crude cane sugar (FTC Resolution No. 17). July 16. The Exchange Office clarified that the rem i t- tance tax on personal services ( in c lud ing pensions) would only be levied on amoun ts in excess of legal exemptions; for pensions the exemption was Col$ 12,000 a month (General Circular No. 40 ). July 26. INCOMEX announced that import reg is tra- tions under special import-export schemes (the Vallejo P l an) would be valid for six months only and could not be renewed (Ma il Circular S.E. No. 015 ). July 28. PROEXPO was authorized to negotiate the extension of up to 75 per cent of export credits extended to the textile indu s t ry under MBR No. 43 /75. Their interest rate was raised (MBR No. 41 ). July 28. PROEXPO was authorized to finance w i th in the credit line of MBR No. 59/72 (as amended) the wo rk ing capital requirements of enterprises produc ing, storing, and selling bananas for export. At the same time, the advance exchange surrender fac i l i ty for bananas was terminated (MBR No. 42 ). August 10. The Foreign Trade Council announced that applications for export licenses could at the dis- cretion of the importer or exporter be submitted direct to INCOMEX even if the transaction required prior approval by another agency; such approval would hence- for th be sought by INCOMEX (FTC Resolution No. 23; clarified by INCOMEX Mail Circular No. SI-48 of October 4 ). 136 August 10. A large number of goods, principally food s tu f f s, raw materials, and certain mach inery, were exempted f rom impo rt license (FTC Resolution No. 22). At the same t ime, four ta r i ff items we re t ran s fe r red f r om the regime of f ree impor ta t ion to that of prior l i c e n s i ng (FTC Resolution No. 20 ). August 10. Expor ts of cowhides and cow leather were subjected to a quo ta of 250,000 pieces for 1976 (FTC Resolution No. 21). August 11. The advance exchange surrender fac i l i ty for co f fee exports was te rm ina ted, w i th effect f rom Augu st 12 (MBR No. 44 ). August 11. W i th effect f rom August 13, a m in imum exchange su r render price for in s t ant co f fee was set at US$6 per kilogram (MBR No. 45). August 11. PROEXPO was au thor ized to finance w i th in the credit l ine of MBR No. 59 /72 (as amended) the wo rk ing cap i tal requ i remen ts of en te rp r ises produc ing, s tor ing, and se l l ing cotton for export. At the same time, the advance exchange su r render fac i l i ty for cotton was suspended un t il December 15 (MBR No. 46; see also MBR No. 74, be low). August 11. W i th effect f rom September 1, importers des i r ing to obtain an exchange license for import pay- men ts had to present to the Exchange Office ( 1) a copy of the impo rt registration or import license and (2) the impo rt summ a ry for payment ( in s tead of the commer- cial invoice required previously) a n d / or a copy of the cus toms declaration. The new import summa ry for payment (extracto de importacion para el reemboho) wou ld be issued by the Exchange Office itself and was designed to mon i tor fo re ign paymen ts obligations. There- fo re, impor ts under special import-export schemes rema ined excluded f rom this requirement (MBR No. 47). The impo rt summ a ry for payment was regulated by General Circular No. 55 of the Exchange Office of September 24. August 11. The rate of interest on exchange warrants was lowered f rom 7 per cent to 6 per cent per annum (MBR No. 49; see also MBR No. 62, be low). August 12. With effect f r om August 16, the time period w i th in which final exchange surrender for exports other than coffee must take place was extended f rom 180 days to 270 days a f ter approval of the export reg- is t ra t ion. INCOMEX rema ined empowered to permit longer terms for goods sold on a commission basis, capital goods, and other goods that norma l ly require more extended payment terms (MBR No. 50). On August 23, INCOMEX fixed these terms at two years, three years, and 360 days, respectively; for capital goods, exchange surrender could also be permitted a f ter more than three years ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 1114). August 12. Exports of coffee ready for shipment had to take place w i th in 20 days af ter registration with INCOMEX of the contract between the National Federa- tion of Coffee Growers and the exporter. For coffee not ready for shipment, this period was increased to 40 days ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ( INCOM EX R e s o l u t i on No. 1058 ). The l a t t er per iod was increased to 45 days by IN COM EX R e s o l u t i on No. 1097 of August 18. August 24. A la rge n um b er of goods were ex emp t ed f rom p r ior im p o rt l i c en se (FTC R e s o l u t i on No. 2 4 ). August 25. An E lec t r ic i ty Deve lopment Fund was created in the B a nk of the R e p u b l ic w i th resou rces s tem- m ing f r om bonds whose p l a c em e nt was to be a u t h o r i z ed periodically by the Mone ta ry Board. The B ank was au tho r ized to use the resou rces of t h is f u nd to r e d i s c o u nt at 19 per cent per a n n um up to 90 per c ent of c e r t a in loans g ran ted by comm e r c i al b a n ks to the e l e c t r i c i ty sector for the pu rcha se of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy needed to service fo r e ign lo ans f a l l i ng d ue be fo re December 3 1, 1977 (MBR No. 5 1 ). The r ed i s count r a te was lowered f rom 19 per cent to 18.5 per cent by MBR No. 70 of November 17. August 25. W i th effect f r om August 30, the t ime period for p a ym e nt of im p o r ts th rough the i n d u s t r i al and comm e r c i al f ree zones was c a l cu l a t ed f r om the d a te of the b i ll of l a d i ng ra ther t h an the cu s toms w i t h d r aw a l. This b rought the t e rms of p a ym e nt for im p o r ts t h r o u gh free zones in l i ne w i th those go v e rn ing o ther r e im- bursable impor ts (MBR Re so lu t ion No. 52; see also MBRs Nos. 17 /76 a nd 6 4 / 7 6 ). August 25. W i th e f fect f r om Oc tober 1, an adv an ce import p aym en ts deposit (deposito anticipado para pago de importaciones} was requ i red in o rder to ob t a in exchange l icenses for im p o rt p a ym e n t s. The peso deposit was to cover 10 per cent of the f o r e i gn cu r r en cy amount of the exchange l icense and had to be made, prior to customs c lea rance, at the p r e v a i l i ng c e r t i f i c a te ma rket exchange ra te. In exchange the impo r t er o b t a i n ed a nonnego t iab le and i n t e r e s t - f r ee depos it c e r t i f i c a te for foreign payments (tituJo de deposito para pagos al exterior) of 24 mon th s' m a t u r i t y, wh i ch cou ld be used in p a r t i al p a ym e nt of the im p o rt b i l l, p rov ided t h at payment was made w i t h in the m a x im um periods s t ipu- lated by the Mon e t a ry Boa rd. If the c e r t i f i c a te was not used w i t h in those t ime l im i t s, the impo r t er cou ld sell it to the Bank of the Repub l ic at the o r ig inal exchange rate. Exempt f r om th is depos it r e q u i r em e nt were food- stuffs for d i rect con sump t ion; d i rect impo r ts by the armed forces and police; books and o ther p r in ted ma t- ter; imports f rom Eas te rn Eu rope and Sp a in; impo r ts under special impor t-export schemes; and impo r ts of capital goods (MBR No. 53; see also MBR No. 63, below). Detailed i n s t r u c t i o ns were issued in G en e r al Circular No. 54 of the Exchange Office of September 24. August 25. The ce i l ing on the c red it i n s t i t u t i o n s' foreign exchange positions was ra ised f r om 1 per cent to 4 per cent of total foreign exchange l iab i l i t ie s. In addition, the Bank of the R epub l ic cou ld, as be fo re, place renewable th ree -mon th depos i ts in fo re ign exchange with credit institutions up to 20 per cent of the ir short- term fore ign exchange l iab i l i t ie s. This percen tage cou ld be exceeded if the credit in s t i tu t ion was recen t ly created COLOMBIA or if it had a low am o u nt of short-term exchange fo re ign l i a b i l i t i es o u t s t a n d i n g. The legal reserve requ i rement for such deposits by the Bank of the Republic was lowered f r om Co l$15 to Col$5 per US$1. The ra t io between the B a nk of the Repub l ic 's fo re ign exchange depos i ts and the c red it in s t i tu t ion s' fo re ign exchange pos i t ions was to be 2 :1 (MBR No. 54 ). August 27. A ll re s iden ts r e c e iv ing f o r e i gn exchange o ther t h an c red it in s t i tu t ions (prev ious ly, on ly ce r ta in c om p a n i es were excep ted) had to reg is ter w i th the S u p e r i n t e n d e n cy of Ex ch ange Con t ro l. They had to repo rt t h e ir fo r e ign ex ch ange t r a n s a c t i o ns on a mon th ly ba s is and to s u r r e n d er a ll fo re ign exchange rece ip ts w i t h in 10 d ays of rece ipt (R e s o l u t i on No. 0430 of the S u p e r i n t e n d e n cy of Exchange Con t ro l ). September 8. The B ank of the Repub l ic was empow- ered to r ed i s count up to 100 per cent of loans g ran ted by the comme rc ial b anks and the Ag r i cu l tu r al Bank to c omm e r c i al a nd i n d u s t r i al f i rms in t he a g r i c u l t u r al a nd l i v e s t o ck sec tors to cover the dom e s t ic c u r r e n cy r e q u i r em e n ts in respect of letters of credit issued aga inst food im p o r ts and m a t u r i ng on or be fo re December 31. The r e d i s c o u n ts were for one yea r, renewab le, and at the same ra te of interest as the red iscoun ted loan but not h i g h er t h an 3 per cent per a n n u m. As a cond i t ion for the c o n t r a c t i ng of f u t u re fo r e ign exchange ob l iga t ions, firms in the sectors concerned had to subm it for approval by the M o n e t a ry Board h a l f - y e a r ly p rog rams of impo r ts to be financed by le t te rs of c red i t, and to report on the execu t ion of these p rog rams on a m o n t h ly basis (MBR No. 56; see also MBR No. 59, b e l ow ). September 8. MBR No. 57 brought the perm iss ib le t e rms of fo r e ign loans to the p r iv a te sector for the con- s t r u c t i on of p l an ts and o ther pro jec ts of e conom ic and social interest in to l ine w i th those govern ing re im- b u r s a b le im p o r ts (see MBR No. 17, a b o v e ). Such lo ans c o u ld o n ly be reg is tered w i th the Exchange Office if INCOM EX had issued a non re imbu rsab le impo rt license for the goods covered by the loan and if the Exchange O f f ice had app roved any pa rt of the con t r a ct p r o v i d i ng for the impo rt of techn ical services. As before, sup- p l i e r s' c red i ts cou ld not be reg is te red. In te rest ra tes had to c o n f o rm to the m a x im um ra tes spec if ied by the Mone- t a ry Board, wh i le the m a tu r i ty had to be three years in gene ral or f ive yea rs at most if spec ial app rov al was g iven by the Execu t ive Counc il for Foreign Trade; for im p o r ts u n d er global impo rt licenses th at Coun c il was empowe red to app rove m a t u r i t i es in excess of five years. MBR No. 57 also au thor ized the Bank of the Republic to a cqu i re Coffee Savings Bonds if the b a n ks used the proceeds to r e t i re registered fo r e ign loans of the p r iva te sector at least one year prior to ma tu r i ty. September 22. MBR No. 58 conso l ida ted and pa r t ly amended the r egu l a t ions gov e rn ing fo re ign cu r r en cy deposits, revolving f u n ds in fore ign currency and foreign exchange dona t ion s. Cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns were au thor ized to accept fo re ign currency deposits f rom d ip loma ts, 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA international organizations, nonresidents in general, and resident entities whose activities no rma l ly involved receipts and expenditures in foreign currency ( inc lud ing credit ins t i tu t ions, insurance companies, t ranspo r ta t ion companies, exporters, companies located in free zones, official entities, and hotel and tourism agencies). With pr ior approval f rom the Monetary Board, the Exchange Office could also perm it other resident en t i t ies to open fo r e ign currency accounts. R evo lv ing f u n ds gene ra t ing fore ign exchange through fo re ign operations or through exchange licenses could be used for paymen ts in respect of office expenses abroad, export f re igh t, f re ight on impor ts effected through f ree zones, expend i tu res under import-export schemes, fuel purchased by Colombian in t e rn a t ion al carriers, and the cons truc t ion of public works by Colombian firms on behalf of fore ign com- panies; the Mone tary Board could also pe rm it the use of revo lv ing f u n ds for other purposes. A m i n im um reserve of 20 per cent had to be lodged w i th the Bank of the Republic against both fore ign cu r rency deposits and revolving fund s. The Exchange Office was empow- ered to exempt residents receiving g if ts of fo re ign cur- rency from the surrender requirements. September 22. MBR No. 59 modified MBR No. 56 by l im i t i ng the rediscount f a c i l i ty for fo re ign ag r icu l tu ral and livestock credit to the equ iva lent of US$78 m i l l ion and by g iv ing p r io r i ty to the se rv ic ing of letters of cred it that had ma tu red prior to the issuance of MBR No. 56. The balance of the red iscount l ine was to be used to re f inance letters of credit in strict order of m a t u r i t y. September 22- PROEXPO was au thor ized to use the balance of the US$10 m i l l ion credit l ine established by MBR No. 18 /75, as well as repaymen ts of loans f r om that cred it l ine, for the financing of expor ts to And e an Group coun t r ies under the credit agreement w i th the Andean Development Corpora t ion (MBR No. 60). September 22. W i th effect f rom September 24, the ra te of interest on exchange w a r r a n ts was raised aga in f rom 6 per cent to 7 per cent per a n n um (MBR No. 62 ). September 30. With effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1977 both the rates of tax credit certificates (CATs) and the e l ig ib i l i ty th e r e for were a l tered. The CAT ra te was set at 8 per cent for about 2,000 indu s t r i al i tems ( i n c l u d- ing gold) and about 300 ag r icu l tu ral and livestock i tems. A rate of 5 per cent was applicable to mea t, fish, shell- fish, unprocessed wood, cotton y a rns and textiles, and potatoes. A small numb er of items, in c lud ing cattle, bananas, tobacco, cotton, tires, and boxes, were eligible for CATs at the rate of Vio of 1 per cent (Decree No. 2091 of the M in is t ry of F inance and Public C r ed i t ). October 19. FTC Resolution No. 43 listed all cap i tal goods eligible for paymen ts terms of three years. In addition, it specified those capital goods which would be eligible for external financing of up to five years. October 19. FTC Resolution No. 42 regulated the exportation of forestry products. 138 October 20. MBR No. 63 exempted from the advance import payments deposit of MBR No. 53 imports f rom countries with which Colombia ma in ta ined reciprocal credit and clearing a r rangemen ts and imports financed w i th loans f rom in te rna t ional organ iza t ions or foreign governmen ts. October 20. The payment terms of MBR No. 17 for raw ma te r ial imports processed in free zones were coun ted aga in f rom the date of customs clearance (MBR No. 64 ). October 20. MBR No. 65 provided that foreign exchange expend i tures by c red it ins t i tu t ions for com- missions, interest charges, etc., had to be made in the mon th fo l low ing that in which paymen ts obligations had arisen either by v i r tue of prior exchange licenses or th rough advance paymen ts w i thout prior authorization (as pe rm i t ted by MBR No. 5 9 / 7 5 ). October 20. A reserve requ irement of 6 per cent was in t roduced applicable to the level of financial institu- t ions' total fore ign currency l iab i l i t ies. In add i t ion, a m a r g i n al reserve requ i rement of 100 per cent was app l ied to all increases in such liabilities over their level on October 22, 1976. F inanc ial in s t i tu t ions had to meet 50 per cent of the fo rmer requ irement by November 15 and the ba lance by December 15 (MBR No. 66; see also MBR No. 67, be low ). This mea su re was es t ima ted to s ter i l ize about Col$1.8 billion. October 29. MBR No. 67 eased and complemented MBR No. 66. Where reserve requ i rement deficiencies arose, a pena l ty ra te of 2.5 per cent a month would be levied on the sho r t fa ll and the credit ins t i tu t ion con- cerned would be ba r red f rom access to the Bank of the Republic's rediscount facilities for one mon th. Foreign exchange l i ab i l i t i es to in te rna t ional lend ing agencies were exemp ted f r om the reserve r equ i r em en t. Also, c red it ins t i tu t ions whose total fo re ign liabilities were below US$10 million on October 22 were exempted f rom the 100 per cent ma rg inal reserve requ iremen t. The l a t t er requ i rement had to be met by J a n u a ry 1, 1977. November 9. Glass products were exempted f rom impo rt license (FTC Resolution No. 5 1 ). November 17. The special fo re ign credit l ines for im p o r t e rs of cap i tal goods under MBR No. 6 1 / 72 were te rm ina ted. (This l e ft un a f f e c t ed the no rmal credit lines f r om Colombian banks regu la ted by MBRs Nos. 37 /72 and 17 /76 .) Also te rm ina ted were the regu la t ions of MBR No. 1 6 / 72 on sales of travel services and expendi- tu res on credit. At the same t ime the Exchange Office was au tho r ized to reg is ter fo re ign investments not only in U.S. dollars, as previously, but also in Belgian francs, Dan ish k ron e r, deutsche m a rk, French f r an c s, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f r an c s, and Venezue lan bolivares. The Venezue lan bolivar was also added to the list of cu r renc ies accepted for exchange su r render by the Bank of the Repub l ic and sold by it for import paymen ts (MBR No. 68). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 17. The Foreign Trade Counc il was instructed to de te rm ine the t a r i ff i tems wh ich wou ld rema in exempt f rom the advance p aym en ts deposit of M B R N o. 53 ( M B R N o. 69 ). November 25. Var ious cap i tal goods were exemp ted f rom impo rt l icense (FTC R e so lu t ion No. 59 ). November 26. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was increased f r om US$259.25 to US$284.65, w i th effect f rom November 27 (MBR No. 73 ). November 26. The am o u nt of Coffee Sav ings Bonds given to coffee exporters was reduced f r om Col$8 to Col$4 per k i log ram of expor ted coffee. At the same time, the f o rm u la d e t e rm i n i ng the am o u nt of such bonds as a f u n c t i on of the wor ld m a rk et price was abolished (Decree No. 2482 of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce and Public C red i t ). November 26. The coffee su r r end er r e q u i r em e nt was reduced f rom 85 per cent to 80 per cent of expo rt volume (Decree No. 2483 of the M i n i s t ry of F in an ce and Public C r e d i t ). December 1. A u n i f i ed and s l igh t ly mod i f ied expo rt regime took e f fec t. Exports could be ( 1) f r e e, (2) f ree subject to app roval by ce r ta in agencies, (3) l im i t ed to export by the p roducer ( app l i c ab le o n ly to c em e n t ), (4) sub ject to quo ta (m o s t ly a g r i c u l t u r al and l ive s tock p roduc ts ), or (5) suspended (FTC Re so lu t ion No. 58 of November 2 5 ). December 2. The Bank of the R epub l ic in s t ruc ted comme rc ial b a n ks to reg i s ter i n d i v i d u a l ly a ll exchange receipts in excess of US$500 s t emm i ng f r om inv i s ib l e s. In add i t ion, where these rece ip ts exceeded US$1 ,000 banks were requ i red to issue exchange ce r t i f ica tes in lieu of domes t ic cu r r en cy. If i n d i v i d u al rece ip ts exceeded US$20,000 b a n ks had to rece ive app rov al f r om the Bank of the Repub l ic to make the pu r ch a se (R e so- lution No. 2 of the Bank of the R e p u b l i c ). December 7. The tempo ra ry suspens ion of advance exchange su r render for cotton expor ts ( M BR No. 46) was made p e rm a n e nt (M BR No. 7 4 ). COLOMBIA December 7. The Bank of the Republic was empow- ered to use the resources of the Electricity Development Fund to ref inance banks' fore ign paymen ts on behalf of e lec tr ic i ty compan ies (MBR No. 75 ). December 15. F inanc ial in te rmed ia r ies s a t i s f y i ng the requ i remen ts of Colombian capital pa r t ic ipa t ion of Decree No. 1900 of 1973 (m ixed compan ies) were g ran ted access to the red iscount f a c i l i ty established by MBR No. 11 to finance the acqu is i t ion of fore ign capital pa r t ic ipa t ions ( M B R N o. 80). December 15. The personal bond or bank gua ran tee (M BR No. 38 /74) wh ich exporters had to establish w i th IN COM EX in order to ensure exchange su r render was hence fo r th to be converted at the M in i s t ry of F i n a n ce exchange ra te in effect d u r i ng the preced ing m o n th (M BR N o. 8 1 ). December 15. The B ank of the R epub l ic was to base on a gold p r ice of US$42.2222 per t roy oun ce the 8 per cent in tax c red it ce r t i f ica tes wh ich producers of gold were to receive as of J a n u a ry 1, 1977 (MBR No. 82 ). December 15. The a c coun t ing ex ch ange rate of the B a nk of the R epub l ic was changed f r om Col$30 to Col$35 per US$1 to be app l icab le for the first t ime to the b a l an ce sheet for December 1976 (MBR No. 83 ). December 15. The v a l i d i ty of MBR No. 77 /75 (wh ich had empowered the Exchange Office to grant exchange l icenses for 95 per cent of the f re ight on impo r ts and expo r t s) was ex tended u n t il J u ne 30, 1977 (MBR No. 8 4 ). December 27. The rate of advance impo rt paymen ts deposit was raised f rom 10 per cent to 30 per cent, w i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 10, 1977 (MBR No. 85 ). This m e a su re was expected to absorb about Col$3.6 b i l l i o n. December 27. The m i n im um su r render price for coffee exports was increased f rom US$284.65 to US$307.60, w i th e f fect f r om December 28 (MBR No. 86 ). 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value or central ra te for the currency of the People's Republic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The u n it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is off ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange t ransac t ions in French f r an c s, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned. Paymen ts to the fo l low ing coun t r ies, although sub ject to dec la ra t ion, a re un re s t r ic ted: ( 1) France ( a nd i ts Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B en in, Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Settlements and inves tment t ransac t ions w i th all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the People's Republic of the Congo. Payments to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies (as well as the pu r- chase of their bankno tes and trave lers checks) are sub- ject to a comm iss ion of 0.75 per cent, subject to a m in i- mum of CFAF 75; exempt are payments of the State, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and the BEAC, the salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, the expenditures of official missions abroad, and the scholarships of persons study- ing or t r a i n i ng abroad. Most payments to other f o r e i gn coun tr ies and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for fore ign exchange purchased by Diamond Purchase Offices, 0.50 per cent; this commission also is subject to a m in i- mum of CFAF 100. Administration of Control The Office of External F inanc ial Re la t ions in the M in i s t ry of F inance supervises borrow ing and lend ing abroad, the issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fore ign securities in Congo, and inwa rd and ou twa rd direct investment. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External F inanc ial Re la t ions and the authorized banks. All exchange transac t ions must be effected th rough au thor ized banks or the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. Impo rt and export licenses 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r cu l a t ing in the People's Repub l ic of the Congo is issued by the B anque des Etats de 1 'A f r i q ue Cen t ra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Empire, Chad, and Gabon. 140 are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is t ry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are g ran ted by the Off ice of Ex te rnal F inanc ial Re la t ion s. Prescription of Currency The People's Repub l ic of the Congo is an Ope ra t ions Account coun t ry of the French F ranc Area, since the BEAC m a in t a ins an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f r an c s, French f r an c s, or the cu r r en cy of any other ins t i tu te of issue th at m a i n t a i ns an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Se t t lemen ts w i th the People's Repub- lic of Ch ina are made through special accounts estab- lished under a b i la teral paymen ts agreemen t .2 Settle- ments w i th all other coun tr ies are usua l ly made in any of the cu r renc ies of those coun t r ies or in French f rancs th rough Fore ign Accoun ts in Francs. A ll paymen ts to Por tugal requ i re the pr ior app roval of the M in i s t ry of F inance. A ll se t t lemen ts be tween Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The cred i t ing of BEAC bankno tes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is pe rm i t ted when they have been ma i led direct to the BEAC agency in B razzav i l le by the fo re ign correspon- den ts of au tho r ized bank s. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom a ll sources r equ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion. For impo r ts of v i r t u a l ly all commod i t ies f r om countries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC coun tr ies other than France such au thor iza t ion is given free ly. All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports f r om all non-EEC coun t r ies outside the French Franc Area are subject to l icen s ing in accordance with an a n n u al import p rog ram; the program also includes ind ica t ive quotas for a few commod i t ies f r om EEC countries other than France. This program is determined by a jo int French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a jo int quo ta is set for the countries of the Central A f r i c an Cus toms and Economic Un ion (UDEAC ). Also outside the program are impo r ts for the Government under fore ign aid and b i la teral payments agreements and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (O FNACOM ). The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods o r ig ina t ing in any country out- ~ There are inoperative paymen ts agreements w i th Bu lgar ia, North Korea, and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution side the F r e n ch F r a nc A r e a. L i c en s es for l i b e r a l i z ed c omm o d i t i es o r i g i n a t i ng in E EC coun t r i es o ther than F r a n ce are issued a u t om a t i c a l l y. Impo r ts f r om n o n - U D E AC coun t r i es of c e r t a in goods are not p e rm i t t ed unless the im p o r t er a lso buys a c e r t a in qu an t i ty of the l o c al p r o d u ct (jumelage). O F N A C OM has a m o n o p o ly ov er c e r t a in im p o r t s, i n c l u d i ng h a r dw a r e, r i c e, c a n n ed toma toes, salt, a nd sa l ted fish f r om a ll sou rces, c e r t a in c o t t on p iece goods f r om J a p a n, a nd c e r t a in o ther tex t i les f r om the P e o p l e 's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a. A ll im p o rt t ran sac t ions r e l a t i ng to coun t r ies o ther th an F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the O p e r a t ions A c c o u nt coun t r ies must be d om i c i l ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b ank. L i c en s es for im p o r ts f r om c o u n­ tries o ther th an F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, and the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r ies r equ i re the v i sa of the F o r e i gn T r a de B u r e au and the Office of E x t e r n al F i n a n c i al R e l a t i o n s. T he a p p r o v ed im p o rt l icense en t i t les impo r t e rs to pu rchase the necessary exchange, p r o v i d ed that the s h i p p i ng do cum en ts are subm i t t ed to the a u t h o r i z ed b a n k. Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts for inv i s ib l es to F r a n ce (as defined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea are p e rm i t t ed free ly p r o v i d ed they have been d e c l a r ed and are made t h r o u gh an a u t h o r i z ed i n t e rm e d i a r y; those to o ther fo r e ign coun t r i es are subject to a p p r o v a l. F or m a ny types of p aym ent the a p p r o v al a u t h o r i ty has been de lega ted to a u t h o r i z ed bank s. P a ym e n ts for in v i s ib l es re la ted to trade are p e rm i t t ed f ree ly w h en the ba s ic t rade t r a n s a c t i on has been a p p r o v ed or does not r equ i re a u t h o r i z a t i o n. T r a n s­ fers of i n c ome a c c r u i ng to non res iden ts in the f o rm of profits, d i v i d e n d s, a nd roy a l t i es are a lso p e rm i t t ed free ly wh en the ba s ic t r a n s a c t i on has been a p p r o v e d. At the end of 1976 c e r t a in c u r r e nt paymen ts we re in a r rea rs. R e s id ent tou r is ts t r a v e l i ng to f o r e i gn coun t r i es o ther than F r a n ce (as de f ined above ), M o n a c o, the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es of the F r e n ch F r a nc A r e a, or Z a i re may o b t a in an exchange a l l o c a t i on of an amount e q u i v a­ lent to C F AF 175 ,000 a pe r son a t r ip ( C F AF 87 ,500 for c h i l d r en u n d er ten) for any n um b er of t r ips a yea r; any fo r e ign exchange r em a i n i ng after r e tu rn to C o n go in excess of C F AF 5 ,000 must be su r r end e r ed. F or business t r a v el to s u ch fo r e ign coun t r i e s, there is a spec ial a l l o c a t i on of the equ iv a l ent of C F AF 2 0 , 0 00 a person a d a y, subject to a m a x i m um of C F AF 4 0 0 , 0 00 a t r i p. A d d i t i o n al amoun ts of fo r e ign exchange for business t r a v el m ay be a u t h o r i z ed in a p p r o p r i a te cases. T he use of c r ed it ca rds a b r o ad by res iden ts is p r o h i b i t e d. Th e re are s p e c i al f a c i l i t i es for t rave le rs to K i n s h a sa w ho request no f o r e i gn means of p aym ent o ther than Z a i r i an bankno tes. T he t rans fer of the en t i re net s a l a ry of a fo re igner w o r k i ng in C o n go is p e rm i t t ed u p on p resen ta­ t i on of the a p p r o p r i a te p ay v o u c h e r, p r o v i d ed that the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO t rans fer takes p lace w i t h in three mon ths of the p ay p e r i o d. Re s iden ts t r a v e l i ng to F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, or an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t ry m ay take out C F AF 2 5 , 0 00 in BE AC b ankno t e s. R e s i d e nt a nd non re s ident t rave le rs g o i ng to f o r e i gn coun t r i es o ther th an F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i e s, or Z a i re m ay f ree ly take out up to a m a x i m um of C F AF 10 ,000 in B E AC bankno te s, F r e n ch bankno te s, a nd bankno tes issued by any o ther ins t i tu te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt w i th the F r e n ch T r e a s u r y. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expo r ts r equ i re p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i o n. E x p o r ts to R h o d e s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. M o st expo r ts to coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea m ay be made f ree ly; am o ng the excep t ions are c omm o d i t i es expo r t ed by the N a t i o n al M a r k e t i ng Office for A g r i c u l t u r al P r o d u c ts (Off ice N a t i o n al de C omm e r c i a l i s a t i on des P r o d u i ts A g r i c o l e s, or O N C P A) or o ther state en terpr ises h a v i ng an expo rt m o n o p o l y. P ro c e eds f r om expo r ts to fo r e ign coun t r i es must be c o l l e c t ed a nd r ep a t r i a t ed, g en e r a l ly w i t h in 180 days of a r r i v al of the c omm o d i t i es at th e ir d e s t in a t ion. E x p o rt proceeds must be su r r end e r ed w i t h in a m o n th of the due date. A ll expo rt t ran sac t ions r e l a t i ng to coun t r i es o ther t h an F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, and the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es must be d om i c i l ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a n k. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll amoun ts due f r om res iden ts of f o r e i gn coun t r i es in respect of se rv ices a nd a ll i n c ome ea rned in those coun t r i es f r om fo r e ign assets must be c o l l e c t ed w h en due a nd su r r end e r ed w i t h in a m o n th of the due da te. R e s i d e nt and non re s ident t rave le rs m ay b r i ng in any amount of bankno tes a nd co ins issued by the B E A C, the B a nk of F r a n c e, or any o ther b a nk of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt w i th the F r e n ch T r e a s u r y, as w e ll as any am o u nt of fo r e ign bankno tes a nd co ins (except g o ld c o i n s ). Capital A ll c a p i t al movemen ts be tween C o n go a nd R h o­ de s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. M o v em e n ts of funds be tween C o n go and F r a n ce (as def ined a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun t r i es in the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea are free, a l t h o u gh sub ject to d e c l a r a t i o n; most inve s tment op e r a t ions a nd b o r r o w i ng and l e n d i ng be tween C o n go and these coun t r i es are subject to a u t h o r i z a t i o n. C a p i t al transfers to a ll o ther coun t r i es r equ i re exchange c o n t r ol a p p r o v al and are r e s t r i c t ed, but c a p i t al rece ip ts f r om su ch coun t r i es g en e r a l ly are per­ m i t t ed f ree ly. A ll f o r e i gn secu r i t ie s, fo r e ign c u r r e n c y, and t i t les em b o d y i ng c l a ims on fo r e ign coun t r i es or non re s iden ts that are h e ld in C o n go by res iden ts or non res iden ts must be depo s i ted w i th a u t h o r i z ed b anks in C o n g o. 1 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad :>> require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Congo4 require the prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, how- ever, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) borrowing backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Congolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Congo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f r om nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of F inance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment in Congo for which prior approval has been obtained as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans that are free of au tho r iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External F inanc ial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA f rancs to non- residents is prohibited unless special au tho r iza t ion is * Including those made t h r o u gh the in t e rm ed i a ry of fo re ign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 4 Inc lud ing those invo lv ing the cession between non res iden ts of a pa r t ic ipa t ion in the capital of a Congolese company. obtained. In addition, lending to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose ma tur i ty is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973 (Ordi- nance No. 1 1 / 7 3 ), a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferen t ial treatment. Gold By v i r tue of Decree No. 66 /236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are f ree to hold gold in the fo rm of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, they require the prior au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any fo rm, f rom or to any other country. Exempt f rom the latter requ i rement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles con- ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no o f f ic ial exports of gold. Changes during 1976 January 1. The ta r i ff preferences accorded to imports f rom EEC countries were eliminated f rom the common external customs tar iff of the UDEAC. February 10. Decree No. 76 /44 made import licenses for all types of m ineral wa te r, irrespective of origin, sub- ject to the acquisition by the importer of an equal quan- tity of locally produced mineral water. March 15. France suspended its participation in the European common margins a r rangemen t; the parity between the CFA f r a nc and the French f r anc remained unchanged. April 20. Law No. 04 /76 of March 30 modified the import taxa t ion on selected commodities. Specified meat and fish, rice, and salt were en t ire ly exempted f rom import duties and taxes. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a l ue is 0.0859580 g ram of fine gold per Costa R ican Colon. The Cen t ral Bank of Costa Rica buys and sells exchange in the o f f ic ial ma rket at f ixed rates of <£ 8.54 and 0 8.60, respec t ive ly, per US$1. T ran sac t ions w i th member c o u n t r i es of the Cen tral Am e r i c an Common M a r k et ( CA CM ), w h en settled through the Cama ra de Compensac ion Cen t roame r icana (a clearinghouse established by the cen t ral b anks of Cen t ral Am e r i ca to fo s ter the process of econom ic i n t e- g ra t ion of th e ir c o u n t r i e s) a re e f fec ted at a u n i f o rm b u y i ng and s e l l i ng ra te of £ 8.57 per US $ 1. The C en t r al Bank s tands ready in p r in c ip le to buy U.S. do l lars fo r- wa rd at 90 day s, at (Z 8.39055 per US$1. Some t ran s- a c t ions in f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e, i n c l u d i ng s e t t l em e n ts f or c u r r e nt t r a n s a c t i o n s, a re e f f e c t ed t h r o u gh t he S an Jose Stock E x c h a n ge at r a t es close to the o f f i c i al m a r k et r a t e. Costa R ica fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agree- m e n t, as f r om F e b r u a ry 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange con t ro ls are opera ted by the Cen t ral Bank. No l icen ses a re r equ i r ed to buy or sell fo r e ign exchange t h at is not sub j e ct to m a n d a t o ry sa le to the bank ing sys tem. Prescription of Currency In p rac t ice, n e a r ly a ll exchange t r an s a c t ions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. do l la r s. P a ym e n ts to Poland may be m ade t h r o u gh spec ial U.S. d o l l ar accoun ts es tab l ished u n d er a p a ym e n ts a g r e em e nt w i th that c o u n t r y. P a ym e n ts to El S a lv ado r, G u a t em a l a, Hon- du ras, and N i c a r a g ua in respect of t r a de and t rade- related inv i s ib l es mu st be made in Costa R i c an colones th rough the C am a ra de C om p e n s a c i on C e n t r o am e r i c a n a. P aym en ts in Costa R i c an co lones to M e x i co in respect of t rade and i n v i s i b l es h a ve been suspended s ince September 1, 1976, p end ing ag reement between the Cen t ral Am e r i c an cen t ral b a n ks and the Bank of Mexico to r e s ume t r a n s a c t i o ns u n d er th e ir A g r e em e nt on C l e a r ing and R e c i p r o c al C r ed i t s, w h i ch p r e v i o u s ly w as app l icab le to such t r a n s a c t i o n s. Imports and Import Payments There is no im p o rt l i c e n s i ng and a ll im p o rt p aym en ts may be made f r e e ly, sub jec t, except in the case of goods o r ig in a t ing in CACM coun t r ies or P an am a, to subm is- sion of ev idence of p r ior r e g i s t r a t i on (see b e l ow ). How- ever, c e r t a in im p o r ts f r om CACM c o u n t r i es r e q u i re p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, and im p o r ts m a de on a b a r t er basis require a ba r ter l icense (licencia de trueque) issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy, Indus t ry, and Commerce. Imports f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited in pr inc ip le. To be eligible for fo re ign exchange, orders for impo r ts va lued at over US$300 must be registered w i th the C en t r al Bank upon c o n f i rm a t i on by the f o r e i gn s u p p l i e r, unless the goods or ig ina te in CACM coun t r ies or Panama. In add i t ion to any app l icab le cu s toms d u t y, there are lev ied on impo r ts ( 1) a s t amp tax of 3 per cent of the cus toms d u ty on commod i t i es not covered by the common ex te rnal t a r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad va lo rem, f rom wh ich ce r ta in essential i t ems a re e x em p t; and (3) a selective c o n s um p t i on tax w i th a range of 10-100 per cent ad v a lo r em on im p o r ts f r om ou t s ide the CACM and at lower rates on m a ny CACM impo r ts. There also exists a sma ll consu lar tax on ce r ta in impo r ts. Fu r the rmo re, most impo r ts o r ig in a t- ing ou ts ide the CACM a re subject to an im p o rt su r- charge of 30 per cent of the app l icab le im p o rt d u t y, and a t em p o r a ry impo rt su rcha rge of 10-50 per cent ad va lo rem is levied on m a ny impo r ts f r om coun t r ies other than the CACM coun t r ies and Panama. Payments for Invisibles The p r i or app rov al of the C en t r al B ank is requ i red for a ll sales of o f f i c i al f o r e i gn exchange for cu r r ent in v i s i b l e s; for ce r ta in t ravel exchange this approval is given by the Central Bank 's represen ta t ives in the com- m e r c i al b a n k s, wh i le in a ll other cases the approval mu st be sought f r om the C en t r al Bank 's D ep a r tm ent of I n t e r n a t i o n al T r an s a c t ion s. Any physical or j u r i d i c al person may purchase, sub- ject to p r ior app roval by the Cen t ral B an k, exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$300 a r em i t t a n ce for any pu r- pose and at any t im e, but not mo re o f t en t h an once eve ry s ix m o n t h s, and sub ject to s u bm i s s i on of ev idence as to purpose by the a p p l i c a n t. Foreign exchange for p r iva te t ravel may be purchased at agent b anks up to US$1 ,000 a pe rson a t r ip for t r ips of ten days (US$100 a day for sho r t er t r i p s ), u p on p r e s e n t a t i on of passport and t r a v el t i ck e t s; agent b a n ks m ay sell a d d i t i o n al am o u n ts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total addi- t i o n al amou nt of US$2,000 a person a t r i p, subject to p r e s en t a t ion of ev idence of the leng th of the stay abroad. T ravel ex ch ange in excess of US$3,000 a person a t r ip mu st be approved by the Depa r tment of In te rna t ional T ransac t ions. Taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, r e s p e c t i v e l y, are lev ied on r em i t t a n c es ab road of d iv i- d ends and i n t e r e s t; i n t e r e st on c e r t a in b o r r ow i ng abroad (e .g ., f r om gove rnment b ank s) is exemp t. Res iden ts t r a v e l i ng abroad by a ir mu st pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the v a lue of the t icke ts p lus 0 20 a t r ip; gove rnment off ic ia ls, diplomats, m inors, and s tuden ts are exempt. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises expo r ts to en su re th at exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- render must take place by sale to the Cen tral Bank or an agent bank. Non t r ad i t ion al exports are en t i t led to tax credit ce r t i f ica tes (CATs) co r re spond ing to 15 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue, wh ich are f ree ly nego- tiable. In add i t ion, expor ters of n o n t r a d i t i o n al commod- ities eligible for CATs may also receive cer t if ica tes for increases in exports (C IEX) for 10 per cent of the increase in the f .o .b. v a lue of exports over th at in the preceding ca lendar year; the certificates are redeemable aga inst cash at the Cen t ral Bank. Licenses f r om the Cen tral Bank are necessary for the expo r ta t ion of m e r ch and i s e. In a d d i t i on to the export l icen se f r om the Cen t ral B a n k, o ther export l icenses a re requ i red as f o l l ow s: s tra teg ic m a t e r i a l s, such as a rm a- men ts, m u n i t i o n s, scrap i r o n, and scraps of n o n f e r r o us base metals ( f r om the M in i s t ry of Economy, Indus t ry, and C omm e r c e ); sugar ( f r om the M i n i s t ry of Economy, Indus try, and Comme rce ); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, co t ton, meat, and purebred and o ther cattle ( f r om the Na t ional Council of P r o d u c t i o n ); a i rp l an es ( f r om the C iv il Av i a t ion B o a r d ); I n d i an a rt objects m ade of gold, stone, or clay ( f r om the N a t i o n al M u s e u m ); tobacco ( f r om the Tobacco De fense B o a r d ); lumb e r, root of ip e c a cu anh a, ce r ta in l ives tock, and a n im a ls and p lan ts of forest origin ( f r om the M in i s t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and L ive s tock ); and co f fee ( f r om the Coffee O f f i c e ); in add i t ion, when there is a l ien on the coffee in favor of a b a n k, that bank's app roval is r equ i r ed be fo re the Cen tral Bank g r an ts an export l icen se. Expo r ts to South A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted in p r inc ip le. The exchange proceeds of all expor ts must be sur- rendered w i th in 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on cred i t, upon exp i ry of the te rm of the credit. Fore ign-owned b a n a na compan ies that have con t rac ts w i th the Gov e rnm ent mu st su r render th e ir net export proceeds, wh ich are ca lcu la ted by d edu c t ing f rom their gross export proceeds ( 1) profits obtained du r ing the year f r om the ir t r an s a c t ions in Costa R ica; (2) the a l lowance for deprec ia t ion on their inve s tment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. In t e rn al Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on b an an as payable in fo r- eign cu r rency; and (4) the cost of impo r ts made du r ing the year that were necessary for the ir n o rm al bus iness in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on most tradi- t ion al and n o n t r a d i t i o n al exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be su r rende red at the official rate w i th in 15 days of accrual, with the exception of the fo l low ing, which may be re ta ined and used as "free ma rket exchange": d ip loma t ic and s im i l ar sa lar ies and expenses; tou r i st expend i tu re; f am i ly rem i t tances and other personal rem i t tances; settlements 144 on in su r an ce c la im s, p rov ided t h at the p r em ium was paid th rough the f r ee m a r k e t; and comm i s s ions rece ived by agen ts and r e p r e s e n t a t i v es of f o r e i gn f i rms. Capital Inwa rd t r a n s f e rs of c ap i t al may be made f ree ly by residents and nonres iden ts. The Cha r ter of the Central B ank prov ides t h at fo r e ign cap i tal e n t e r i ng th rough the o f f ic ial m a rk et may be reg is te red w i th the Cen t ral Bank in order to be ensu red access to th at m a rk et for the t r a n s f er of in t e r e s t, p ro f i t s, and am o r t i z a t i o n. P r iva te ou t f lows of f o r e i gn cap i tal may be e f fec ted th rough the o f f ic ial m a rk et on ly if so reg i s te red. I n c om i ng c ap i t al may be sold f ree ly or re ta ined by the rec ip ient if it is fo r e ign c a p i t al that d id not elect r eg i s t r a t ion and sur- render at the off ic ial ra te or if it is na t ional capital r e t u r n i ng f r om ab road. Agent b a n ks have a u t h o r i ty to sell fo re ign exchange at the o f f ic ial ra te for r ep aym en ts on ce r ta in p r iv a te and pub l ic debts and c e r t a in amo r t i z a- t ion on reg is te red f o r e i gn cap i ta l. R e g i s t r a t i on is man- da to ry on ly for pub l ic sector bo r row ing ab road and for g o v e r nm e n t - g u a r a n t e ed b o r r ow i ng ab road. The s ta te commerc ial banks requ i re Cen t ral Bank approval to borrow ab road. By v i r t ue of the N a t i o n al P l a n n i ng Law, m in is tr ies and au tonomous or s em i au tonomous organi- za t ions o ther t h an the comm e r c i al b anks requ i re the app roval of the Off ice of P l a n n i ng and Econom ic Policy be fo re they may i n i t i a te s teps to a r r a n ge any bo r row ing ab road. Fo re ign and dom e s t ic c a p i t al t r a n s f e r r ed f rom abroad may f r e e ly be depos i ted as t ime depos i ts w i th agent b anks in the f o rm of spec i f ied fo r e ign c u r r e n c i e sl or be invested in cer t if ica tes of deposit denom ina ted in colones; such f u n ds may be r e t r a n s f e r r ed abroad upon ma tu r i ty at the official exchange ra te. Ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs of n a t i o n al c a p i t al a re res t r ic ted. However, any physical or j u r i d i c al person m ay, subject to p r ior Cen t ral Bank a p p r o v a l, purchase fo re ign exchange f r om agent b ank s, up to US$300 a rem i t tance, for any pu rpose and at any t im e, but not more o f ten than once every s ix mon ths and p rov ided the purpose is ind ica ted. Agent banks have a u t h o r i ty to sell exchange for ce r ta in inv e s tm ent ope ra t ions approved by the M in i s t ry of Economy, Indu s t ry, and Commerce as we ll as the Cen t ral Bank. A ll other ou tw a rd t r an s f e rs of national capital require prior au thor iza t ion by the Cen t ral B a n k; it does not a u t h o r i ze these whe re there is no actual ob l iga t ion abroad, or where, despite the exist- ence of an ac tual ob l iga t ion ab road, the Bank considers the t r a n s f er to be an u n a u t h o r i z ed t r a n s f er of na t ional capital. Gold The Cen tral Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the nation's mone tary reserves in accordance w i th regu la t ions es tab l ished by its own Board. Private physical and ju r id ical persons may nego- 1 Deutsche ma rk, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution t ia te f ree ly, at home or ab road, dome s t ica l ly produced gold (except n a t i o n al a rchaeo log ical t r e a s u r e s ), pro- vided the re is no i n f r a c t i on of i n t e r n a t i o n al ag reemen t s. They may also hold gold in any f o rm in Costa R ica. The Cen t ral B a nk does not supp ly gold to a r t i s t ic or professional users. Changes during 1976 January 3. A tempo ra ry impo rt surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad v a lo r em was a p p l i ed to m a ny goods; im p o r ts f rom CACM coun t r ies and P a n ama were ex emp t. The proceeds of the su r ch a rge wou ld go to the F u nd for the P romo t ion of Expor ts and Tour ism (C e n t r al Bank Board Session No. 3075-75 of December 27, 1975). January 5. Decree No. 5623-H of December 27, 1975 increased the rates of the se lec t ive con sump t ion tax on m any goods; the range of ra tes r em a i n ed u n c h a n g ed at 10-100 per cen t. January 13. Decree No. 5674-H increased the export tax on coffee f r om 5 per c ent to 8 per cen t. January 26. A sys tem of f r e e ly n ego t i ab le c e r t i f i c a t es for increases in expor ts ( C I E X) w as i n t r o d u c e d. E x p o r t- e rs of n o n t r a d i t i o n al c omm o d i t i es e l i g i b le to rece ive CATs cou ld in a d d i t i on receive C IEXs for 10 per cent of the increase in the f .o .b. v a l ue of expo r ts over the v a l ue of the preceding c a l end ar year. CIEXs were redeemab le against cash at the Cen t ral B ank. May 20. Congress app roved the CIEX sys tem and s t ipu la ted that on ly h a lf the proceeds of the tempo ra ry import surcharge was to go to the F u nd for the Promo- t ion of Expor ts and Tou r i sm; the o ther h a lf was to accrue to the cen tral government budget. June 6. Pr iva te comme rc ial b anks were au tho r ized to accept t ime deposits in U.S. do l lars, for the account COSTA RICA of the Central B ank. The m i n im um deposit was set at US$1,000, the m a x im um m a t u r i ty at one year, and the m i n im um m a t u r i ty at s ix mon ths (Cen tral Bank Board Session No. 3117-76 of May 4 ). August 9. An impo rt surcharge of 10 per cent ad va lo rem was app l ied on f e r t i l i z e rs wh en impo r ted as a final product. August 10. Decree No. 6214-H f u r t h er increased the export tax on coffee. The new rates ranged f rom 1 per c ent to 18 per c en t, d e p e n d i ng on the price. The export tax on sugar was lowered and was also levied at a range f r om 1 per cent to 18 per cen t, d e p e n d i ng on the price. August 24. R i c e, bean s, and corn were added to the l i st of t r a d i t i o n al e x p o r ts and ceased to be e l ig ib le for CATs w i th e f fect f r om Augu st 24, 1977. September 1. T ransac t ions in Mexican pesos were su sp end ed. They were not resumed d u r i ng 1976. September 22. Decree No, 6313-H restored the flat 8 per cent ra te of expo rt tax on coffee. October 13. T r a d i ng in fo r e ign exchange was i n i t i a t ed at the San Jose Stock Exchange. November 3. So rghum, co f fee b e a n s, and roas ted coffee were added to the l ist of t r a d i t i o n al expo r ts and ceased to be e l i g i b le for CATs w i th e f fect f r om N o v em- ber 3, 1977. November 6. Consump t ion taxes and import sur- charges were reduced on some 80 t a r i ff i tem s. The reduc t ion of impo rt surcharges ranged f rom 10 to 50 pe rcen tage po in ts and the surcharge on 12 i tems was e l im i n a t ed comp le te ly. The c o n s um p t i on tax was abolished for 12 ta r i ff items (Cen tral Bank Board Ses- s ion No. 3169-76 of November 2 and Decree No. 6482-H of November 6 ). 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Since Ju ly 9, 1973, the rate for the Cyprus pound has been adjusted daily w i th the aim of ma in ta in ing its effective relationship w i th the cur- rencies of the ma in trad ing partners of Cyprus. The Central Bank of Cyprus quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1976 was US$2.4310 buying, and US$2.4280 selling, per <£C 1, and that for sterling was <£ stg. 1.4310 buy ing, and <£ stg. 1.4260 selling, per £C 1. The Central Bank quotes indicative rates for a number of other currencies as well. Furthermore, the Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities tor fo r- ward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in cover of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank and trade controls by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. Certain au tho r i ty to approve app l ica t ions for the allocation of fore ign exchange w i th in the scope of ins t ruc t ions issued by the Cen tral Bank has been delegated to the authorized dealers. Au thor i ty to in t ro- duce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of pota- toes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato M a rk e t ing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus G ra in Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th clearing coun t r ies1 must be made through the appropriate clearing account denom ina ted either in pounds sterling or in U.S. dollars. Paymen ts to countries other than the clearing coun tr ies (except Rho- desia) may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign cu r r en cy2 other than Rhodesian currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rho- desia may ma in ta in w i th authorized banks nonresi- 1 Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an Democratic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, Romania, and U.S.S.R. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. expired in 1976 but the c lea r ing account may be used for cer ta in paymen ts un t il the end of 1977. - Fore ign cu r r en c i es a re a ll cu r renc ies o ther t h an the C y p r us p o u n d. 146 dent accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of Cyprus, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents and nonresidents, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, w i th the exception of sales for travel purposes to non- resident ind iv idua ls, to members of fore ign embassies, and to members of the Un i ted Na t ions forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of <£C 50 a t r i p ). Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho- desia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or governmen t-guaran teed securities. Income earned on blocked f u n ds so invested may be remitted to the non- resident benef ic iary or credited to an Ex ternal Account w i thout prior reference to the Cen tral Bank. Funds can be released f rom Blocked Accounts in the fo l low ing c ircums tances: on application by the authorized bank concerned ac t ing on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked f u n ds for ( 1) reasonable educa t ional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reason- able l iv ing expenses of the account holder while on a v is it to Cyp ru s; and (3) dona t ions to charitable institu- t ions in Cyp rus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amoun ts up to a level determined from t ime to t ime may become eligible for release. At pres- en t, the Cen t ral Bank is prepared to perm it the release to each nonres ident holder of blocked funds up to £C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of v ir tua l ly all commodities may be made free ly f rom any other coun try except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vak ia, the G e rm an Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and Viet N am. For protective reasons, ce r ta in goods (such as some agr icu l tural and textile products, foot- wear, metal manu fac tu res, and industrial machinery) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may not be impor ted f r e e ly; for a few of these items, no licenses are gran ted, wh i le for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports f rom Bu lga r ia, the Peo- ple's Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, Po land, Rom an i a, and the U.S.S.R. are licensed in accordance w i th the terms of bilateral trade a n d / or payments agreements. With respect to A lban ia, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and V iet N am, no f o rm al t r a d i ng a r rangemen ts exist but certain ba r ter transac t ions take place f rom t ime to t ime. Ind iv idu al impo rt licenses a re not requ i red for bona f ide unso l ic i ted g i f ts (wh i ch may not be sold) up to £C 10 in va lue, for re tu rned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Paymen ts for a ll pe rm i t ted impo r ts may be made free ly a f ter a r r iv al (where documen ts are received on a collection bas is) or a f t er receipt of sh ipp ing documen ts (whe re p a ym e nt is made und er a d o c um e n t a ry c r e d i t ). Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les to non r e s id en ts requ i re the approval of the exchange con t rol au tho r i t i e s. P ro f i ts, dividends, and in terest f rom approved fo re ign invest- men ts may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad, a f t er payment of any charges and t ax es due. I n s u r a n ce p r em i ums due to fo r- eign i n s u r a n ce compan ies a re r em i t t a b le a f t er d edu c t ion of all expenses and con t ingenc ies in respect of any claims. M a i n t e n a n ce r em i t t an c es a re a l lowed on app l i- ca t ion a c comp an i ed by d o c um e n t a ry ev idence of h a r d- ship. For ce r ta in categories of paymen ts, l im i ts are imposed, gene ra l ly on ly for the purpose of p reven t ing illicit c ap i t al o u t f l ow. For s tudy ab road, the lower l im it is £C 700 a year, and the upper l im it is £C 2,200 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of l i v i ng in the c o u n t ry concerned —e .g ., for s t u dy in coun t r ies in the M i d d le East ( d e f i n ed as Egyp t, Greece, I s rae l, etc., except L e b a n o n ), £C 700; in Lebanon, £C 1,000; in the Un i t ed States and C an ad a, £C 2,200; in other coun t r i e s, £,C 1,500. H igher am o u n ts for s t u d e nt a l low- ances may be g ran ted on p resen ta t ion of do cum en t a ry evidence. Howeve r, a l lowances no rm a l ly are gran ted on ly for s tudy at colleges, u n i v e r s i t i e s, or compa rab le i n s t i t u t i o n s. For t o u r i st t r a v e l, the l im it is <£C 150 a person a n n u a l l y ; - '5 for business t ravel £,C 20 to £C 40 a day is g r an t ed in a d d i t i on to the tou r i st a l lowance. The bas ic t o u r i st a l low an ce is not a v a i l a b le for t ravel to Rhodesia. Res ident trave lers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and fo re ign cu r r en cy notes up to the equ iva lent of £C 50, the l a t t er as pa rt of th e ir a n n u al basic t r a v el a l l ow a n c e. N o n r e s i d e nt t rave le rs may t ake out £C 10 in Cyp rus notes and any am o u nt of fo re ign cu r rency no tes th at they b rought in to Cyp ru s. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts of potatoes are subject to con trol by the Cyprus Po ta to M a r k e t i ng Bo a rd, and those of wheat and ' • I n c r e a s ed to £C 250 w i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. CYPRUS ba r ley to con trol by the Cyp rus G ra in Comm iss ion. A ll exports are subject to l icens ing when the f.o.b. v a lue exceeds «£C 75, to ensure repatriation of the sales pro- ceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescrip- t i on of Cu r rency, above ). Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized b ank w i t h in one mon th of receipt. Persons en t e r ing Cyp rus may b r ing in any am o u nt in fo re ign cu r rency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange con t rol is exercised over all capital receipts or p aym en t s. Cap i tal receipts mu st be offered for sale to an au thor ized dealer; paymen ts of a capital na tu re to any d e s t in a t ion r equ i re p r ior approva l. Ou tward port- f o l io i n v e s tm e nt is not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted, and on ly specified types of outward direct inves tment (e.g., for export p romo t ion) are approved. Fo re ign i n v e s tm e n ts in Cyp rus by non r e s id en ts r e q u i re the p r ior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. In con s id e r ing app l ica t ions due regard is given to the pu rpo se of the inv e s tm en t, the ex tent of possible fo r e ign exchange sav ing s, the n um b er of persons to be emp loyed, the ex tent of the fo re ign exchange l i ab i l i ty wh ich might ar ise f r om the inve s tmen t, and possible compe t i t ion with e x i s t i ng i n d u s t r i e s. Proceeds f rom the l iqu id a t ion of approved fo re ign inves tmen ts may be repatriated in f u ll at any t im e, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Fo re ign n a t i o n a ls who repa t r ia te or take up residence ou ts ide Cyp ru s, and Cypr io ts who em ig ra te, may t rans- fer abroad up to <£C 1,000. Any excess amount is depos i ted in a Blocked Account. The t ran s fer abroad of f u n ds r e s u l t i ng f r om estates and in tes tac ies and of the sales proceeds of real estate also is l im i ted to £C 1,000, w i th any excess am o u nt to be credited to a Blocked Accoun t. Transac t ions in fo re ign secur i t ies owned by res iden ts requ i re prior permission f rom the authorities. In prin- c ip le, all secu r i t ies held abroad by res iden ts are subject to reg i s t ra t ion. Foreign l i fe insu rance policies not cov- ered by the In su r an ce Law must be deposited w i th an a u t h o r i z ed dea le r. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Cyprus for n um i sm a t ic pu rposes. W i th this exception, residents o ther t h an the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s, au tho r ized dealers in gold, and indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or a cqu i re gold in any f o rm other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to impo rt gold on ly for the purpose of disposing of it to i n d u s t r i al users. The export of gold requires the per- m iss ion of the exchange control authorities. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Changes during 1976 August 16. Authorized dealers were empowered again to handle all payments for permitted imports without referring to the Central Bank. November 24. The bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. expired. A trade agreement providing for settlements in convertible currencies was signed. The clearing account, however, would remain open until December 31, 1977, so that certain payments could be channeled through it. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System Exchange Control Territory The p ar v a lue is 0 . 1 1 8 4 89 g r am of fine g o ld per Dan i sh K r o n e. T he c e n t r al rate is D Kr 7 .89407 = S DR 1, and D e n m a rk ava i ls i t se lf of w i d er m a r g i n s. D e n m a rk maintains a m a x i m um m a r g in of 2VA per cent for rates in spot exchange t ran sac t ions in the o f f ic ial exchange market be tween the D a n i sh k r o ne and the B e l g i an f r an c, the deutsche m a r k, the L u x e m b o u rg f ranc, the N e t h­ erlands g u i l d e r, the N o r w e g i an k r o n e, a nd the Sw e d i sh krona. No a n n o u n c ed m a rg ins are m a i n t a i n ed for any other c u r r e n c y. M a r k et rates are quo t ed d a i ly for the 17 cu r r en c i es that are used most o f t e n .1 On December 3 1, 1976, the b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates for the U . S. d o l l ar we re D Kr 5 .7835 a nd D Kr 5 . 7 9 1 5, respectively, per U S $ 1. A u t h o r i z ed exchange dea lers m ay engage in a rb i t rage both spot a nd f o rw a r d. Spot t ran sac t ions are def ined as t ransac t ions wh e re a c t u al d e l i v e ry takes p lace w i t h in two b a n k i ng d ay s; t ran sac t ions w h i ch m a tu re in three banking days or mo re are de f ined as f o rw a rd t ran sac­ tions. Spot t r an s a c t ions in a ll cu r r en c i e s, i n c l u d i ng Dan ish k r o n e r, a nd f o rw a rd t ran sac t ions i n v o l v i ng purchases of f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es against sales of fo r e ign currencies, m ay be c o n c l u d ed f ree ly w i th dom e s t ic and foreign b a n k s. F o r w a rd t ran sac t ions w h i ch i n v o l ve Dan ish k r o n er m ay a lso be c o n c l u d e d, but o n ly w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to two yea r s; f u r t h e rm o r e, sp e c i al rules a p p ly for the f o rw a rd sale of f o r e i gn cu r r en c i es against D a n i sh k r o n er to f o r e i gn co r r e spond en ts a nd for f o rw a rd dea l ings aga inst D a n i sh k r o n er w i th n o n­ resident cu s tome r s. F o r w a rd p r em i ums a nd d i s coun ts are gene ra l ly left to the i n t e r p l ay of m a r k et fo rces, but the N a t i o n al B a nk of D e n m a rk ( the c e n t r al b a n k) has from t ime to t ime s o ld U . S. d o l l a rs f o rw a rd to a u t h o r i z ed banks. F o r w a rd t ran sac t ions w i th res iden ts w h i ch involve D a n i sh k r o n er must c o v er c o n t r a c t u al paymen ts for goods a nd se rv ices or paymen ts on a u t h o r i z ed loans and cred i ts, the p aym en ts c o v e r ed b e i ng due not m o re than two years f r om the date of the f o rw a rd con t r a c t. Fo rwa rd t r an s a c t ions w i th res ident cu s tome rs w h i ch do not i n v o l ve D a n i sh k r o n er but the pu rcha se of one foreign c u r r e n cy aga inst ano the r, must a lso c o v er e i ther claims or l i a b i l i t i es in one of the two cu r r en c i es c o n­ cerned, but the r equ i r em en ts w i th respect to c o n t r a c t u al payments are less s t r ict in th is case. D e nm a rk f o rm a l ly a c c ep t ed the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t ic le V I I I, Sec t ions 2, 3, a nd 4, of the F u nd A g r e e­ ment, as f r om M ay 1, 1967. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs. Canadian dol­ lars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders. Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. T he D a n i sh M o n e t a ry A r ea comp r i s es the S o u t h e rn part of D e n m a r k, G r e e n l a n d, a nd the F a r oe I s l and s. Administration of Control E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the N a t i o n al B a nk of D e n m a r k, w h i ch is the c e n t r al exchange c o n t r ol a u t h o r i t y. H ow e v e r, a dm i n i s t r a t i ve powe rs for mo st paymen ts a nd transfers are de lega ted to the a u t h o r i z ed exchange dea lers, i .e ., most b ank s, some sav ings b ank s, a nd some of the s tock exchange b r o k e rs w ho are membe rs of the C o p e n h a g en S t o ck E x c h a n g e. T he exchange regu la t ions g en e r a l ly do not a p p ly to i n d i­ v i d u al t ran sac t ions a nd transfers of D Kr 3 ,000 or less. T r an s f e rs of up to D Kr 3 ,000 m a y, in any case, be made w i t h o ut d e l i v e ry of f o rm s. P e rm i s s i o n, w h en r e q u i r e d, for fo r e ign d i r e ct inves tmen ts in D e n m a rk has to be o b t a i n ed f r om the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e. L i c e n s es f or im p o r ts a nd expo r t s, w h en r e q u i r e d, are issued by the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e, the M i n i s t ry of A g r i c u l t u r e, or the M i n i s t ry of F i s h e r i e s. Prescription of Currency P a ym e n ts to or f r om f o r e i gn coun t r i es m ay be m ade in any f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy or in D a n i sh k r o n e r. F or paymen ts to a nd f r om R h o d e s i a, h ow e v e r, s p e c i al ru les are a p p l i ed f or s e cu r i ty reasons, in a c c o r d a n ce w i th UN S e c u r i ty C o u n c il R e s o l u t i on N o. 253 ( 1 9 6 8 ). ISonresident Accounts N o n r e s i d e nt k r o ne accoun ts are c o n v e r t i b l e. T he o n ly excep t ions are Em i g r a nt A c c o u n ts a nd S o u th R h o d e s i an A c c o u n t s. Krone Accounts m ay be op en ed by a u t h o r i z ed banks f or f o r e i gn b ank s, in su rance c om p a n i e s, a nd s h i p p i ng c om p a n i e s, a nd f or spec i f ied o f f ic ial in s t i tu t ions of the E E C. T h ey m ay a lso be op en ed for o ther non re s iden t s, p r o v i d ed that the t o t al c r e d it b a l an ce of the accoun ts of an i n d i v i d u al non r e s id ent does not exceed D Kr 2 0 0 , 0 0 0; any am o u nt in excess of D Kr 2 0 0 , 0 00 must be t r an s f e r r ed a b r o ad w i t h in two day s. S p e c i al accoun ts not subject to a m a x i m um ba lance m ay be op en ed for non res iden ts p r o v i d ed they are o n ly c r e d i t ed w i th the l i q u i d a t i on p roceeds or c a p i t al ea rn ings f r om c e r t a in inves tmen ts in D e n m a rk a nd some o ther fund s. Emigrant Accounts are k ept by a u t h o r i z ed exchange dea lers f or h o l d i ng l i q u id assets ow n ed by or a c c r u i ng to D a n i sh em ig r an t s, to the ex tent that the amoun ts exceed the ex ch ange a l l ow a n ce of D Kr 4 0 , 0 00 a v a i l a b le to each p e r son at the t ime of d ep a r tu r e. C e r t a in pay­ ments to res iden ts m ay be made f ree ly f r om these accoun ts a nd the ba lances are in any case made c o n­ v e r t i b le one y e ar after d ep a r tu r e. 1 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK South Rhodesian Accounts are kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconver t ib le. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licensing f rom all sources. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased f rom member countries of the EEC are a few agricultural products and unwrought and sem imanu fac tu red gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non- EEC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased f rom Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or Viet N am. No licenses are gran ted for the importation of goods o r ig ina t ing in or purchased in Rhodesia. The t ran s fer of funds to, or for the benefit o f, Rhodesia is prohibited. With this exception, paymen ts for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made free ly w i th in five years (eight years for heavy mach inery and ma jor ins ta l la t ions purchased for an amount of DKr I m i l l ion or more) f rom the end of the mon th in which the goods were cleared through cus toms, provided that the terms of payment conform to no rmal commercial practice in the l ine of business concerned. Repaymen ts of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the con tract (or before the latest customary date in the t r a d e ). However, com- mercial credits can be repaid at any t ime if any discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to no rm al commerc ial prac t ice in the t rade concerned. P repaymen ts l inked to trade in goods and services that are in con fo rm i ty w i th normal commercial practice for the par t icu lar line of business, may be gran ted to non res iden ts up to one year prior to the expected date of impo rt or the expected date of performance of the service; the perm i t ted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, a i r c r a f t, heavy machinery, and ma jor in s ta l la t ion s) when pur- chased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance paymen ts for impor ts requ i re pr ior approval by the N a t ion al Bank. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to au thor ized exchange dealers the au thor i ty to pe rm it paymen ts by residents, inc lud ing fo re ign na t iona ls tempo ra r i ly work- ing in Denma rk, for most invisibles to be made free ly, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest cus tomary date in the t r a d e ); only in a few cases is approval f rom the Na t ional Bank required. Authorized banks are empow- ered to allow the t r an s f er up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in 150 Denma rk, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the t rans fer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country except Rhodesia, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 3,000. Payments of any k ind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly human i ta r ian, medical, or educational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 3,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of paymen t. Nonresidents may in addition export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived f rom sales of fore ign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited w i th the excep- tion of products in tended for strictly medical purposes, educa t ional ma ter ial or other equ ipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. The only commodity that requires a license when exported to member coun tr ies of the EEC is gold. W i th respect to other destinations, except for cer ta in items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of ce r ta in metals, crude oil and some oil products, and mone tary gold. Export proceeds must be t ran s fe r red to Denmark without undue delay unless the Na t ional Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amoun ts which are to be used w i th in 30 days to settle or to o f fset the cost of ce r ta in commercial expenses; otherwise, fo re ign exchange receipts must either be o f fe red for sale to the N a t i o n al Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay or kept in an account w i th an au thor ized exchange dealer for a maxi- mum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Fo re ign exchange der ived f r om invisibles must be t ran s fe r red to Denma rk, un less the Na t ional Bank per- mits otherwise, and o f fe red for sale to the Bank or to an au thor ized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may b r ing in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, fo re ign bankno tes, and other Danish or fo re ign means of paymen t. Capital All transactions not included in a list of cu r rent trans- actions are considered cap i tal t ran sac t ion s. Both inward and ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs of cap i tal and all borrow ing and lend ing between residents and nonres iden ts are subject to exchange control and may be re s t r ic ted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of member coun tr ies of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EEC is based on the rules of the EEC's directives on capital movements, subject to cer ta in t rans i t ional arrangements, and licensing practice in respect of resi- dents of the rest of the world (except Rhodesia) as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon m a tu r i ty, or to repurchase any Danish securities denom ina ted exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange ab ro ad ), to lend amoun ts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a ca lendar year to sub- sidiary companies, branches, and so fo r th, or to a member of the resident's f am i l y, and to buy fo re ign secu- rities that do not represent direct inves tmen ts in fore ign commercial or indu s t r i al enterprises, prov ided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subsc r ip t ion right to shares or the l ike owned by the resident con- cerned or provided that the resident fu rn i shes proof that he has sold fo re ign secur i t ies to a non res ident for a corresponding amount w i th in the last 12 months. No special perm iss ion is required for residents to make t ran s fe rs abroad, w i t h in cer ta in l im i ts, in connec- tion with direct inves tmen ts in most indu s t r ies (equ i ty capital or loan cap i ta l) or w i th the p r iva te acqu is i t ion of real estate abroad. The l im i ts are DKr 100,000 a year for each fo re ign en te rp r ise for direct inve s tmen ts of equity cap i ta l, DKr 200,000 for direct inves tmen ts of loan cap i ta l, and DKr 60,000 a person for pr iva te acquisition of real estate for noncomme rc ial purposes (DKr 150,000 for hea l th r e a son s ). Direct inve s tmen ts abroad by residents are n o rm a l ly approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The p r iva te acqu is i t ion of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 n o rm a l ly is approved in accord- ance w i th Denma rk 's ob l iga t ion as a member of the EEC. Au thor ized dealers do not need special perm iss ion to g rant loans to non r e s id en ts for the financing of pay- ments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided n o rm a l ly th at the loan is gran ted directly to the fo re ign pu rchase r; in those cases where the Na t ional Bank's app roval is r equ i r ed, th is is genera l ly given when the loans are cu s toma ry in the t rade con- cerned. No rm al credits g ran ted by expo r te rs in connec- tion w i th the sale of goods or services are pe rm i t ted in connection w i th sales for periods up to f ive years (e ight years for heavy mach ine ry and m a jor ins ta l la t ions pur- chased for an am o u nt of DKr 1 m i l l i on or m o r e ). Per- mission f r om the N a t i o n al Bank is requ i red for most other t ran s fe rs abroad of a cap i tal na tu re by residents. Por tfo l io inve s tment abroad is genera l ly not allowed. Danish em ig ran ts are gran ted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the t ime of departure. R em a i n i ng l iqu id assets must be credited to an Em ig rant Account in the name of the owner and DENMARK may be transferred abroad one year af ter departure, or ear l ier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up pe rmanent residence abroad w i th the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inw a rd direct inves tment in the f o rm of equ i ty capi- tal may be made without any special license if the investment concerns industry, trade in goods, handi- c ra f ts, the hotel business, travel agencies, or transpor- ta t ion, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 100,000 in each calendar year. Inward direct investments with loan capital also are exempt f rom special license w i th in certain l im i t s. Other direct inves tment by nonres iden ts requires permission f rom the exchange control authorities, which is granted l ibe ra l ly in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonres ident of real property in Denma rk usua l ly requires a special license f rom the M in is try of Justice; permis- sion is usua l ly gran ted readily where real estate is to be used for indu s t r ial or s im i lar enterprises. The sale to nonres iden ts of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does trot requ i re a special license. Bonds d enom in a t ed on ly in Danish k roner may be resold to res iden ts. Non res iden ts may freely purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct inves tment and is not being made with a view to subsequent direct inves tment in the company concerned; this l ibera l iza t ion does not app ly to certificates of invest- ment compan ies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of their assets are securities other than stock exchange securities. Non re s iden ts may f ree ly grant loans for up to f ive years to residents to finance purchases of commodities and services abroad and to finance the g ran t ing of credits for expor ts of commodities and services, pro- vided the credit is in con fo rm i ty w i th commercial prac- tice in the trade concerned. They may, fur ther, grant loans of up to DKr 20 m i l l ion a borrower in a calendar year to en terpr ises in most indus tr ies, provided that the m a t u r i ty is at least five years and that the en t ire proceeds are used on ly to finance expend i tu re made w i th in 6 mon ths pr ior to the date the loan is contracted or to be made w i t h in 12 mon ths fo l low ing that date, for the e s tab l i shmen t, expans ion, or equ ipm ent of the borrower's own business a n d / or indus t r ial premises and for the acqu i s i t ion of plant, mach ine ry, and t ranspo rt equip- ment to be used for its own business a n d / or industrial activities. F ina l ly, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a ca lendar year to members of the nonresident's fam i ly. Mun ic ipa l i t ies and public u t i l i ty companies may as a ru le issue debenture loans abroad without special per- mission of the Na t ional Bank, but their foreign borrow- ing is subject to control by the competent executive depar tment of the Government. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of all types of inves tmen ts and t r an s f e rs of all other l i q u id funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new ly em igra ted persons are pe rm i t ted f r e e ly, i r re- spective of when and how the o r ig inal inve s tment was acquired. In terest and repayment of pr inc ipal on au tho- rized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who are nonresidents at the t ime of receipt may be paid f ree ly, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained f rom a non res ident gene ra l ly must not be amortized or repaid in f u ll more t h an 30 days before the amortization payment or r e p a ym e nt is due, or be fo re the customary da te in the trade. Inheritances and g i f ts to relatives may no rma l ly be t ran s fe r red to any coun t ry w i thout l im i t a t i o n. Ind i- vidual payments above DKr 3,000 as g i f ts to persons other than relatives as a ru le requ i re app roval f rom the National Bank. Such approval is norma l ly given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lations, the details of wh ich are es tab l ished by the N a t ion al Bank. Bona f ide impo r ts of Danish secur i t ies payable on ly in Danish k roner are pe rm i t ted. Exports of Dan ish and fo re ign securities owned by non re s iden ts are no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted also. Dan i sh secur i t ies held in Denma rk and be long ing to non res iden ts may, w i th the pr inc ipal exception of bonds denom ina ted wholly or par t ly in fore ign currenc ies, be sold f r e e ly to res iden ts. Foreign securities held in Denmark and be long ing to non res iden ts may, w i th ce r ta in exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denma rk may be negotiated free ly between residents, provided that the exchange con- trol regulations are not c ircumven ted. The net "commercial" fo re ign position of au tho r ized fore ign exchange dealers is sub ject to l im i t a t ion. For any i n d i v i d u al b ank, th is position mu st not be negative, except in accordance w i th the fo l low ing. For all banks co l lec t ive ly, a " f rame" has been es tab l ished of DKr 600 m i l l ion (un t il f u r t h er no t i c e ). This total has been subdivided in to ind iv idual "frames" for those banks interested. The latter may incur a negative net "com- mercial" foreign position, in so far as this resu l ts f rom the tak ing up of foreign currency loans and credits for purposes of on- lend ing in fo re ign cu r r en cy to customers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. Bank advances to cus tomers f inanced by fo re ign credit taken up under these "frame" a r rangemen ts are exempt f rom the credit ceiling to which the bank concerned is sub jec t; such advances to customers must be used on ly for purposes permitted by the exchange control regu la t ions. A posi- t ive net "commercial" fore ign pos i t ion is in pr inc ip le allowed only as long as it does not exceed the higher of the fo l low ing amoun ts —DKr 2 m i l l i on or 15 per cent of the capital and reserves of the i n d i v i d u al bank con- cerned. The Na t ional Bank has granted a number of exemptions f rom th is rule. Such exemptions are 152 gran ted only when necessary for the ind iv idual bank to cover a net short pos i t ion in the f o rw a rd ma rket wh ich could not otherwise be covered. Banks are not normally pe rm i t ted to borrow abroad for the ir own account at medium or long term; exceptions are made, however, for loans w i th a m a t u r i ty of f ive yea rs or mo re h a v i ng the s t a tus of s u b o r d i n a t ed c a p i t a l. Gold Residents may f ree ly buy, hold, and sell gold coins in D enm a rk; they may also impo rt gold coins. Otherwise, residents other than the mone tary authorities and autho- rized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold norma l ly require licenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce; such licenses are not no rma l ly gran ted except for impor ts and exports by or on beha lf of the m o n e t a ry au thor i t ies and indu s t r ial users. Impor ts of gold in ba rs or coins, un less made by or on beha lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t ies, are sub ject to va lue -added tax at a ra te of 15 per cent but not to cus toms du ty. Domestic t r a n s a c t i o ns also are taxed at a ra te of 15 per cen t. Changes during 1976 In add i t ion to the changes listed below, certain changes in qu an t i t a t ive impo rt regu la t ions were made in accord- ance w i th EEC decisions, d irec t ives, and regu la t ions; most of these re la ted to tex t i les or beef and vea l. January 30. The N a t i o n al Bank issued supp lemen ta ry in s t ruc t ions rega rd ing the exchange control status of non res iden ts' local bus iness branches and agency offices, and rega rd ing res iden ts' bus iness b ranches and agency offices abroad. The concept of d irect inve s tment was mod i f ied by t r e a t i ng s u b o r d i n a t ed cap i tal as outside capital. January 30. The Na t ional Bank stated that the regu la t ion of December 29, 1975, wh ich requ ired authorized dealers to ob ta in its prior approval to grant loans and cred i ts to fo re ign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions for the purpose of financing Danish fo re ign trade, was not in tended to h ind er the no rmal ex ten s ion of credit to fo re ign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions in connec t ion w i th the se t t lement of Dan ish exports th rough documen ta ry credits and the l ike. The rules conce rn ing loans and credits to fo re ign financial in s t i tu t ions were being r ed r a f t ed. Meanwh i le, the N a t i o n al Bank prov is iona l ly approved the con t inued extension by au thor ized dealers of loans and c red i ts to fo re ign financial in s t i tu t ions on terms that were no rmal un t il 1975. (The redraf ted regu- la t ions were issued on October 4.) March 1. The general rate of value-added tax was res tored f r om 9.25 per cent to 15 per cen t. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r rangemen t. Accordingly, D enm a rk ceased to observe max imum ma rg ins of 21A per cent for the French f r an c. April 1. The Na t ional Bank announced that for exchange con trol purposes the na t ional debt certificates ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued f rom Ap r il 1976 were not bonds but special money market paper and th e r e fo re could not be pu r- chased by nonresidents. October 4. The N a t i o n al Bank announced new regu- lations to cover the g r a n t i ng of loans by au thor ized dealers to non res iden ts for purposes of f i n a n c i ng Dan ish foreign t rade. Loans could be g ran ted to non res iden ts without special permission for the f i n a n c i ng of p aym en ts to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services. Such loans were no rma l ly to be g r a n t ed d i rec t ly to the foreign purchaser but could never the less be g ran ted to foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in ce r ta in more spec i f ica l ly prescribed cases. In all other cases, loans to nonres i- dents for the purpose of f i n a n c i ng Dan ish fo re ign t rade could be gran ted only w i th prior app roval f r om the National Bank; app l ica t ions could be expected to be given favorab le cons ide ra t ion when the p a r t i cu l ar loans were cus tomary in the t rade concerned. Since the Na t ional Bank had learned th at in c e r t a in cases fo re ign financing in s t i tu t ions had accepted deposits from Danish financial in s t i tu t ions as security or com- DENMARK pensation for loans granted to residents, the Bank po in ted out that authorized dealers' holdings abroad must neither directly nor indirectly be made illiquid by tying them up for any special purpose, e.g., as security. October 4. The administrative practice was eased w i th respect to paymen ts concerning the utilization of know-how or conce rn ing pa ten t, t radema rk, model, inven to r ' s, film, and other author's rights. Such pay- men ts could hence fo r th be received or effected freely. October 18. The cen tral rate was changed f rom DKr 6.28205 = US$1 to DKr 7.89407 = SDR 1. The co r respond ing change in the conversion rate against the European mone ta ry u n it of account was f rom DKr 7.57831 = 1 u n it of account to DKr 7.89407 = 1 u n it of accoun t. New in t e rv en t ion rates were set for the cu r renc ies p a r t i c ip a t ing in the Eu rop e an common m a r g i ns a r r a n g em e n t. December 29. The max imum amount that a non- res ident ind iv idu al person could m a i n t a in in his Krone Accoun ts (M -Accoun ts) was increased f rom DKr 75,000 to DKr 200,000. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Dom in ican Peso. The currency is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Cen- t ral Bank of the Dom in ican Repub l ic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a comm iss ion of V#i of 1 per cent. Exchange t ransac t ions by comme rc ial banks w i th the pub l ic also take place at the ra te of RD$1 = US$1, subject to bank ing commissions of !4 of 1 per cent buy ing and V2 of 1 per cent se l l ing. D i f- f e r ent e f fec t ive exchange rates may arise f r om the requ irement of a f u l ly prepaid letter of credit for cer ta in imports. W i th the exception of paymen ts for impor ts made w i th the importer's own fo re ign exchange, all pay- men ts abroad must be made th rough banks, and a ll exchange received must be sold to banks. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of fo re ign exchange to commercial banks for prev ious ly approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an impo rt for wh ich a commerc ial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank pays the exchange and extends a credit to the Cen tral Bank for the amount invo lved. If the request was for a d i rect p a ym e n t, bank d r a f t, or t r a n s f er of fo re ign exchange, the de lay in pay- ment represents a commerc ial a r rea r. Such a r rea rs are incu r red by explicit decision of the Cen t ral Bank based on the reserve pos i t ion at the t ime of the decision. The commerc ial banks are requ ired to t r a n s f er to the Cen t ral Bank all exchange purchased. There is a tolerated pa ra l lel exchange ma rket in wh ich the exchange ra te fluctuates. The ave rage ra te in this m a r k et d u r i ng 1976 was about RD$1.20 = US$1. On August 1, 1953, the Dom in ican Repub l ic no t i f ied the Fund that it fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag ree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange and t rade con trol policy is made by the Mone ta ry Board. Foreign exchange control is a dm i n- istered by the Cen t ral Bank. The Mone ta ry Board establishes impo rt quotas, wh ich are adm in i s te red and con tro l led by the Foreign Exchange D e p a r tm e nt of the Central Bank. Cer ta in releases of f o r e i gn exchange requ i re the express au tho r i z a t ion of the P res ident of the Republic. Export controls are adm in is te red by the Dom in i c an Center for Export P romo t ion ( C EDO P EX ). Prescription of Currency Impor ts f rom the Un i ted States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for In te rna t ional Development must be effec ted under special le t ters of c red i t. Ce r ta in import commissions must be paid in local currency 154 on ly. Se t t lemen ts w i th B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be effected th rough special accounts established under reciprocal cred it agreements .1 Import payments in currencies other t h an the U.S. do l lar mu st be made through a le t ter of c red i t. Otherwise no ob l iga t ions are imposed on import- ers, expor ters, or other residents in respect of the me thod to be followed or the cu r rency to be used for p a ym e n ts to or f r om non re s iden t s. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of m a ny goods are proh ib i ted. Impor ts of c e r t a in o ther commod i t ies are res t r ic ted to quo ta s. A ll c omm o d i t i es a re exempt f r om quota and proh ib i t ion when they are f inanced w i th the impo r te r 's own foreign exchange; such impo r ts are also exempt f r om prepay- ment of impo rt taxes and su rcha rges. L i c en s ing con tro ls are m a i n t a i n ed over a few commod i t ies, however, for reasons of hea l th or secur i ty. The impo rt controls invo lve exchange a l loca t ions. A ll p aym en ts for imports requ i re the app rov al of the C e n t r al B ank, except those made w i th the impo r te r 's own exchange. I n s u r a n ce on impo r ts must be effec ted w i th compan ies au tho r ized to opera te in the Dom in ican Repub l ic. Commod i t ies sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions can be impo r t ed and se t t led w i th o f f ic ial exchange only aga in st a f u l ly p repa id le t ter of cred i t. The same r e q u i r em e nt app l ies to some other goods t h at are not sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve r e s t r i c t ion s, i n c l u d i ng many types of smoked, d r i ed, or c ann ed f ish, olives and capers, alcoholic beverages, V e n e t i an b l ind s, some per- f um es and cosmetics, and ce r ta in con s t ruc t ion ma te r ia ls, i n c l u d i ng plywood doors and boards. Some other im p o rt i tems not sub ject to r e s t r i c t ions mu st be covered by r egu l ar le t te rs of c red i t. The commerc ial banks t r a n sm it to the C en t r al Bank each day a list of applica- t ions for a ll impo r ts aga inst letters of c red i t. A f t er the C e n t r al B ank app roves an a p p l i c a t i o n, the le t ter of c red it may be opened by the comme rc ial bank. For p repa id le t ters of c red it the Cen t ral Bank debits the a c count of the comme rc ial b anks for the peso equ iva lent at the t ime of a p p r o v al of the le t ter of c r e d i t. The peso equ iva lent of o ther le t ters of cred it is f o rw a r d ed to the Cen t ral Bank a f t er they have been negotiated and exchange is reques ted by the comme rc ial b ank. Most impo r ts a re sub ject to an i n t e r n al con sump t ion tax of 20 per cent ad v a lo r em. V i r tu a l ly all imports are also sub ject to customs surcharges (impuestos inter- nos) r a n g i ng f r om 10 per cent to 200 per cent of the f .o .b. v a l u e; for most impo r t s, howeve r, they are 56.6 per cen t. Impo r ts of ag r icu l tu ral and indu s t r ial machin- ery and equ ipm ent and spare par ts are subject to a 1 Under these ag reemen ts, impo rt collections and o ther paymen ts to t he p a r t n er c o u n t r i es a re se t t led p r om p t l y. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution single im p o rt tax ( i n c l u d i ng cu s toms d u t i e s) of 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles A ll p a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es r equ i re the p r ior app roval of the C en t r al B ank, w h i ch is g iven o n ly a f t er c a r e f ul e x am i n a t i on of the a p p l i c a t i on and if the t r an s a c t ion is considered g e n u i n e. The a l l o c a t i on of f o r e i gn exchange for travel and for i n s u r a n ce p r em i ums is suspended. A l lowances for f a m i ly r em i t t an c es and m ed i c al expenses are ra re ly g ran ted. R e s id en ts are not p reven ted, how- ever, f r om pu r ch a s ing exchange for t r av el purposes and personal r em i t t an c es in the pa ra l lel m a r k e t. A i r l i ne tickets are sub ject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the t icket is over RD$200 or f r om RD$5 to RD$25 when the pr ice is RD$200 or less. N o n r e s i d e nt fo r e ign n a t i o n a ls w o r k i ng in t he D om i n i- c an R e p u b l ic in i n d u s t r i es a nd f i rms t h at c o n t r i b u te to the coun t ry 's econom ic d e v e l o pm e nt may r em it abroad for any pu rpose up to 60 per c ent of t h e ir s a l a r i e s. For s tuden ts p u r s u i ng app roved courses, exchange reques ts f or m o n t h ly m a i n t e n a n ce a l low an c es a re app roved up to US$240 for Pu e r to R ico, up to US$250 for S p a i n, up to US$300 for o ther E u r o p e an c o u n t r i e s, and up to US$270 for a ll o ther c o u n t r i e s; an a d d i t i o n al a l lo c a t ion of US$50 a m o n t h, irrespective of c o u n t r y, is av a i l ab le for p o s t g r a d u a te s t u d e n t s. Exchange is a lso sold for r em i t t a n c es to a u t h o r i z ed s t u d e n ts to meet expen ses for t u i t i o n, books, and o ther fees. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or ex ch ange f or c o n t r a c t u al p a ym e n t s, such as i n t e r e st and am o r t i z a t i on p a ym e n ts on l o a ns registered w i th the C e n t r al B a n k, a re app roved in c o n f o rm i ty w i th the te rms of the con t rac t. T rans fe rs of p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds a re p e rm i t t ed o n ly in respect of fo re ign i n v e s tm e n ts t h at h ave been reg i s te red in the C en t r al B a nk and c a n n ot exceed 18 per cent a y e ar of the n et v a l ue of the o r i g i n al and any a d d i t i o n al inv e s t- m e n t, i n c l u d i ng r e i n v e s t ed p ro f i t s. T he M o n e t a ry Boa rd, howeve r, is empowe red to a u t h o r i ze r em i t t a n c es in excess of 18 per c ent w h en i n v e s tm e n ts a re deemed b en e f i c i al to the D om i n i c an e c o n om y. D i v i d e n ds r em i t t ed or c r e d i t ed to n o n r e s i d e n ts a re s u b j e ct to a tax of 18 per c e n t. In p r i n c i p l e, e x c h a n ge f or p a ym e n ts f or i n v i s i b l es is made a v a i l a b le w i t h in f ive d ays f r om r e c e ipt of the a p p l i c a t i o n. T r av e l e rs a re n ot p e rm i t t ed to t a ke w i th t h em a ny dome s t ic c u r r e n c y. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts of 28 p r o d u c ts or s u b p r o d u c t s, m a i n ly food- s t u f f s, a re p r o h i b i t e d, and 33 o the r s, m a i n ly in t e r- med ia te goods, a re sub j e ct to q u a n t i t a t i ve r e s t r i c t i o n s. Expo rt l icen ses a re r e q u i r ed for sug a r, co f f e e, cocoa, and tobacco. W i t h in two w o r k i ng days of rece iv ing p a ym e n t, expo r te rs of D om i n i c an p r o d u c ts m u st sur- render t h r o u gh the c omm e r c i al b a n ks to the C e n t r al Bank f o r e i gn exchange e q u al to 100 per cent of the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC f .o .b. or c . i . f. v a l ue of t h e ir expor ts. For the purpose of exchange su r r end e r, declared export prices mu st equ al or exceed the m i n i m um export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt f rom the exchange su r render r e q u i r em e n ts a re fo re ign m i n i ng compan ies, and f i rms o p e r a t i ng in i n d u s t r i al f ree zones, wh i ch a re o n ly r e q u i r ed to conve rt s u f f i c i e nt fo re ign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. A ll exports of sugar and sugar by -p rodu c ts are sub ject to p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by a spec ial comm i t tee. Expo r te rs may not ex tend c red it for more t h an 90 days f r om the da te of s h i pm e nt w i t h o ut a u t h o r i z a t i on by the Cen t ral B a n k. Proceeds from Invisibles The fo r e ign exchange proceeds f r om inv i s ib l es m u st be su r r end e r ed to the Cen t ral Bank th rough the com- m e r c i al b a n k s. The im p o rt of D om i n i c an b a n k n o t es and co ins is p r o h i b i t e d. Capital There are no r e s t r i c t ions on the i nw a rd mov em ent of c a p i t al by e i th er re s iden ts or non r e s id en t s. Inwa rd c a p i t al r em i t t a n c es m u st be reg is tered w i th the Cen t ral B a nk and conve r ted i n to pesos at th at B a n k. Reg is tered f o r e i gn d i rect i n v e s tm e n ts a re e l ig ib le for r em i t t a n c es of p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n d s. R eg i s t r a t ion is pe rm i t ted for i n v e s tm e n ts in a g r i c u l t u r e, l ives tock, m i n i n g, m a n u- f a c t u r i n g, t o u r i sm, t r a n s p o r t a t i on a nd c omm u n i c a t i o n s, and f inance compan ie s. The M o n e t a ry Board may, howeve r, p e rm it the r eg i s t r a t ion of o ther i n v e s tm e n ts wh en deemed b e n e f i c i al to the econom ic d e v e l o pm e nt of the c o u n t r y. R e g i s t r a t i on may cover the v a l ue of m a c h i n e ry and e q u i pm e n t, as w e ll as i n t a n g i b le assets su ch as l i c en s es and pa ten t s. A p p l i c a t i o ns for approval of o u tw a rd c a p i t al r em i t t an c es mu st be s u bm i t t ed t h r o u gh the c omm e r c i al b a n ks to the Cen t ral B a n k. W i t h d r aw a ls of c a p i t al by f o r e i g n e rs l e a v i ng the D om i n i c an R e p u b l ic a re au tho r ized in rea sonab le am o u n t s, some t imes w i th p rov i s ion f or t he t r a n s f er to be e f fec ted in a n n u al i n s t a l lm e n t s. App l i c a t ions by r e s i d e n ts to t r a n s f er cap i tal abroad to m a ke po r t fo l io i n v e s tm e n t s, p u r c h a se real es ta te, etc., a re not n o rm a l ly app roved. Gold R e s i d e n ts may pu rchase, ho ld, and se ll gold co ins in t he D om i n i c an R e p u b l ic f or n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th t h is excep t ion, re s iden ts o ther t h an the mone ta ry a u t h o r i t i es and a u t h o r i z ed i n d u s t r i al users a re not a l low ed to ho ld or a cqu i re gold in any f o rm other than j ew e l r y, in the D om i n i c an R e p u b l ic or abroad. Impor ts and expo r ts of gold in any f o rm o ther th an jewe l ry c o n s t i t u t i ng the pe r sonal e f fec ts of a traveler require l icenses issued by the Central B a n k; such licenses are not n o rm a l ly g r an t ed except for impo r ts and expor ts by or on b eh a lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t ies and indu s t r i al users. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Changes during 1976 May 27. By reso lu t ion of the Mone ta ry Boa rd, the m u t u al credit f a c i l i t i es between the cen tral b a n ks of the Dom in ican Repub l ic and of Colombia were increased by US$10 m i l l i on plus a ma rg in of 20 per cent. May 27. Qua r te r ly impo rt quo tas for regu lar impor t- ers impo r t ing no more th an US $ 1 , 1 25 a qua r ter could be cumu la ted, allowing the importer to make a single a n n u al app l ica t ion for up to US$5,000. May 27. A reciprocal cred it ag reement w i th the cen t ral bank of El Salvador was approved. July 2. The ce i l ing of US$25 m i l l ion on the recip- rocal cred it a r rangement with the Cen tral Bank of Venezuela was raised to US$40 m i l l i o n. August 12. Authority to fix m i n im um export prices for ag r i cu l tu r al and f ishe ry produc ts (except sugar, co f fee, and tobacco) was de lega ted to the Dom in ican Cen ter for Export P romo t ion (C EDO P EX ). September 2. The Mon e t a ry Board decided to sus- pend tempo ra r i ly, or reduce, the allocation of foreign exchange to the b a n k i ng system for a numb er of import i tem s. These cou ld s t i ll be pa id for w i th the importer's own exchange. September 16. The swap a r r ang em ent between the Cen t ral B ank of the Dom in ican Repub l ic and the Cen- t r al B ank of Venezue la was augmen ted by 5 per cent to 20 per cen t. December 2. The M o n e t a ry Board suspended a R e so lu t ion of Augu st 10, 1967, wh ich exc luded govern- m ent impor ts f r om the ex i s t ing system of import quo tas and p roh ib i t ions. December 9. The existing system of import quotas and p roh ib i t ions was ex tended to December 31, 1977. 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System T he c u r r e n cy of E c u a d or is the S u c r e. On F e b r u­ a ry 26, 1973 a c e n t r al rate of S/ 2 5 . 00 = U S $1 was e s tab l i shed, c o r r e s p o n d i ng at the t ime to 0 .0294665 g r am of fine g o ld per suc re. T h e re are two exchange m a rk e t s. In the o f f ic ial m a r k et the C e n t r al B a nk of E c u a d or m a in t a ins rates of S/ 2 4 . 80 b u y i n g, and S/ 24 .95 s e l l i n g, per U . S. d o l l a r, w h i ch a p p ly to expo rt p roceeds, im p o rt paymen ts (except for p r i n t ed m a t t e r ), c e r t a in i n v i s i b le and c a p i t al t ran sac t ion s, a nd most t ran sac t ions by the G o v e r nm e nt or p u b l ic en t i t ies; how ev e r, the exchange t ran sac t ions of the p r iva te p e t r o l e um comp an i es must be c o n d u c t ed w i th the C e n t r al B a n k, at S/ 25 .00 = U S $ 1, subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cen t, b u y i ng and s e l l i n g. P ro c e eds f r om loans g ran ted by i n t e r n a t i o n al agencies to the G o v e r nm e nt a nd to p u b l ic in s t i tu t ions a lso are conv e r t ed at the C e n t r al B a n k, at S/ 25 .00 = U S $ 1, but are exempt f r om the 1 per cent exchange tax. A ll o ther t ran sac t ions take p lace in a free m a r k et wh e re the rate fluctuates but in w h i ch the C e n t r al B a nk in te r­ venes; on D e c em b er 3 1, 1976 the free m a r k et rate was about S/ 2 8 . 00 = U S $ 1 .1 A few t ran sac t ions e l i g i b le for the free m a r k et m ay a l t e r n a t i v e ly be effected at the C e n t r al B a n k, at its o f f ic ial m a r k et b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates. A p p l i c a t i o ns for the pu rcha se of fo r e ign exchange in excess of U S $ 1 0 , 0 00 at the o f f ic ial rate must be suppo r t ed by d o c um e n t a ry ev idence r e g a r d i ng the in tended use. L o a ns t a k en up a b r o ad are subject to an exchange tax r a n g i ng f r om 0.5 per cent for m a tu r i t i es of 18 to 24 mon ths to 2 per cent for m a tu r i t i es of 6 mon ths or less. E x em pt f r om th is tax are ( 1) loans w i th a m a t u r i ty in excess of 24 mon th s; ( 2) c red i ts f r om fo re ign gove rnmen ts a nd i n t e r n a t i o n al f i n a n c i al o r g a­ n i z a t i o n s; ( 3) c red i ts g ran ted to p u b l ic a nd s em i p u b l ic agenc ies; ( 4) inve s tment c red i ts f or the a g r i c u l t u r al and f i sh ing sectors w i th a m a t u r i ty ex c e ed ing three years; ( 5) c red i ts w i th a m a t u r i ty e x c e e d i ng three yea rs for the im p o r t a t i on of m a c h i n e ry a nd c a p i t al good s; and (6) s u p p l i e r s' c red i ts w h i ch do not i n v o l ve an in f low of fo r e ign exchange. E c u a d or f o rm a l ly accep ted the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t i c le V I I I, Sec t ions 2, 3, a nd 4, of the F u nd A g r e e­ ment, w i th effect f r om A u g u st 3 1, 1970. Administration of Control T he M o n e t a ry B o a rd has a u t h o r i ty to sh ift t rans­ ac t ions be tween the two exchange m a rk e ts a nd has extensive powe rs w i th respect to im p o rt p o l i c y. T he 1 Some free market transactions take place at the Central Bank, at daily rates set by the Bank; these are normally close to the free market rates in the commercial banks. Since August 1976 the Central Bank has operated its own free market. o f f ic ial exchange m a r k et is u n d er the c o n t r ol a nd super­ v i s i on of the C e n t r al B a n k. T he C e n t r al B a nk a lso issues im p o rt a nd expo rt l icenses a nd registers f o r e i gn c a p i t a l. Impo r ts w h i ch enter as part of a d i r e ct inves t­ ment a nd im p o r ts by fo r e ign en terpr ises w h i ch have con t rac ts w i th the G o v e r nm e nt r equ i re p r i or a u t h o r i z a­ t i on by the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t r ie s, C omm e r c e, a nd In t eg r a t ion a n d, w h en ex emp t ions f r om f iscal charges are sough t, by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. H o w e v e r, a ll a p p l i c a t i o ns for im p o rt l icenses by i n d u s t r i al firms must be subm i t t ed to the C e n t r al B a n k. F o r e i gn inve s tment in E c u a d or is sup e rv i s ed by the F o r e i gn Inve s tment C o u n c i l. Prescription of Currency M o st se t t lemen ts w i th the G e r m an D e m o c r a t ic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, P o l a n d, and R o m a n ia must take p lace t h r o u gh b i l a t e r al accoun t s. P a ym e n ts be tween E c u a d or a nd B o l i v i a, B r a z i l, C h i l e, C o l o m b i a, M e x i c o, P e r u, a nd V e n e z u e la must be made t h r o u gh accoun ts m a i n t a i n ed w i th each o ther by the C e n t r al B a nk of E c u a d or and the o ther c e n t r al banks c o n c e r n e d, w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of the L A F TA m u l t i l a t e r al c l e a r i ng s y s t em .2 E x c h a n ge p roceeds f r om o th er coun t r i es must be r e c e iv ed in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s. W h e n e v er pos­ s ib l e, im p o rt paymen ts must be made in the c u r r e n cy s t ipu l a t ed in the im p o rt l icen se. Imports and Import Payments P e rm i t t ed im p o r ts are d i v i d ed in to two c a t ego r i e s: L i st I, c o n s i s t i ng of essen t ial goods ( G r o up A) a nd sem ie s sen t ial goods ( G r o up B ), a nd L i st I I, c o n s i s t i ng of less essen t ial a nd l u x u ry goods. A ll goods not i n c l u d ed in these two l is ts are p r o h i b i t e d; in a d d i t i o n, im p o r ts of passenger au tomob i l es a nd c e r t a in o ther veh ic les are su spended .0' P r i or im p o rt l icenses are r e q u i r ed for a ll p e rm i t t ed im p o r t s, w i th the excep t ions spec i f ied b e l ow. B o o k s, newspape rs, p e r i o d i c a l s, a nd p r i n t ed or r e c o r d ed m u s ic m ay be im p o r t ed f ree ly w i t h o ut a l i c en s e; paymen ts have to be made t h r o u gh the free m a r k e t. M e d i c i ne a nd spare parts for m a c h i n e ry a nd a u t om o t i ve v eh i c l es are free of l icense w h en v a l u ed at U S $ 5 00 c . i . f. or less ( U S $ 5 00 f .o .b. or less for goods s h i p p ed by a i r ). A few goods m ay be im p o r t ed o n ly f r om L A F TA c o u n­ t r ies, a nd some o n ly f r om P a r a g u a y; w i th these excep­ t ion s, im p o rt l icenses are issued f ree ly i r r e sp e c t ive of the o r i g in of the goods, p r o v i d ed that the a p p r o p r i a te im p o rt taxes ( i n c l u d i ng im p o rt su r ch a rg e s) have been 2 On January 1, 1977 a reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina came into operation. :i This prohibition was terminated with effect from January 1, 1977, when the motor vehicles concerned became subject to an advance import deposit of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value and an import sur­ charge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR paid, that the required prepayments of 80 per cent of import duties have been made, that an advance deposit has been made, and that a certificate is submitted showing that the insu rance has been a r ranged in Ecuador. The licenses au toma t ica l ly entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. va lue of the imports upon presentation of the sh ipp ing documen ts; advance paymen ts for impo r ts are pro- hibited. Import licenses which do not en t i t le the impor ter to fore ign exchange at the off ic ial rate ("no exchange licenses" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods f i n a n c ed f rom the proceeds of cer ta in in te rna t ional loans, provided that these have been registered at the Cen tral Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. The Mone ta ry Board is au tho r ized to sh i ft i tems between Lists 1 and II and to prohibit the impo rt of goods or l i ft import proh ib i t ions when the economic s i tua t ion of the coun try and the balance of paymen ts s i t u a t i on so requ i re. Many impor ts are sub ject to advance deposit requ i re- ments. The deposit, which must be m a in t a in ed for 180 days, is 30 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue for goods on List II and 20 per cent for goods on List I-B.4 There are va r ious exemp t ions. Most impor ts are subject to a tax of 4 per cent levied on commerc ial t ransac t ions. Fu r the rmo re, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c . i . f. v a lu e, un less they represent g i f ts or fo re ign loans. M a ny goods in List II are subject to an impo rt surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for p a ym e n ts in respect of c e r t a in c u r r e nt inv i s ib l es may be ob ta ined f r om the Cen tral Bank at the official ra te. These invisibles are in pr inc ip le l im i ted to in terest on fo re ign loans that have been registered at the Cen t ral Bank, d iv idends and p ro f i ts on fo r e ign inves t- men ts reg is tered at the Cen t ral Bank, paymen ts by the Gove rnment and public en t i t ies, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans s tudy ing at un ive rs i t ies abroad. In te re st p a ym e n ts at the off ic ial ra te may not exceed 3 pe rcen tage po in ts over the p r ime ra te in the c o u n t ry of the lender or exporter and are sub ject to a ce i l ing of 10 per cent per a n n um, and rem i t tances of d iv idends and p ro f i ts at the o f f ic ial ra te may not exceed 20 per cent of the reg is tered v a lue of the inv e s tm en t. With respect to loans to pe tro leum companies only, in teres t, comm iss ion, and other financial charges on fore ign loans may not exceed the equ iv a l ent of 2 per cent above the rates of in terest of the cred i tor c o u n t r y; mo reove r, annu al amo r t iza t ion may not exceed the sum of und i s- tributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and l iqu i- dated assets, and any v a r i a t i on in w o rk i ng cap i ta l. There are also limits on s tudent a l lowances eligible for the 4 The deposit is wa ived for goods on List I when impo r ted on a bar ter basis against exports of bananas. See also foo tno te 3. 158 official rate; these range f rom US$400 to US$600 a mon th, depending on the type of study and on the coun t ry involved. A ll o ther paymen ts for cu r r ent invisibles, inc lud ing t ravel expend i ture, must be settled in the free market and are unres tr ic ted. There are no l im i ta t ions on the amoun ts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travel- ers may take ou t. Residents t rave l ing abroad by air mu st pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Airline t icke ts for fore ign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for depa r tu re f r om Ecuador and 4 per cent for the re tu rn t r ip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure, among other th ing s, the f u ll surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Cen tral B a n k; licenses are issued free ly, subject to gu a r an t e e. No s u r r e n d er is requ i red for expor ts effec ted und er licensed bar ter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of bananas to help ensure the f u ll su r render of the exchange proceeds. Reference pr ices are also established for expo r ts of crude petro- leum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Cer ta in exports are subject to expo rt taxes, payable at the t ime the export license is rece ived. An expo rt tax of 15 per cent is levied on c rude pe t ro leum, one of 12 per cent on sugar, and one of 10 per cent on cocoa beans; exports of coffee beans are subject to a sliding-scale tax which ranges f r om 2.5 per cent to 15 per cen t. Ce r ta in exports exemp ted f r om the ad va lorem export taxes receive a subs idy based on the f .o .b. va lue. The subsidy is received in the fo rm of a tax cred it cer t if ica te (certifi- cado de abono tribntario) on the basis of cus toms documen ta t ion. There are other export taxes in addi- t i on to those men t ioned above. Proceeds front Invisibles Rece ip ts f r om specified invisibles have to be sold to the Cen t ral Bank at the o f f ic ial ra te. All other receipts, i n c l u d i ng those f r om trave lers, may be sold in the free m a r k e t. There are no l im i t a t i o ns on the am o u n ts of dome s t ic and fo re ign bankno tes th at t rave le rs may b r ing in. Capital C ap i t al may f r e e ly en ter or leave the coun t ry through the f ree m a rk e t. For a ll ou tw a rd t r an s f e rs through the o f f ic ial m a rk et in excess of US$10,000 documen ta t ion as to the pu rpose must be subm i t t ed to the Cen tral B ank. O u tw a rd t r an s f e rs th rough the o f f ic ial market are re s t r ic ted. Most bo r row ing abroad is sub ject to an exchange tax r a n g i ng f r om 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent ( see sec t ion on Exchange Ra te Sys tem, a b o v e ). All fo re ign inve s tmen ts in Ecuador must be registered w i th the Cen tral Bank. New inves tmen ts requ ire the prior au tho r i z a t ion of the M in i s t ry of Indus t r ies, Com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution merce, and Integration and /or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investment for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must docu- ment that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to fore ign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization. For foreign capital en ter ing in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must docu- ment that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the fo rm of a "nonre imbur- sable" import. Add i t iona l ly, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification f rom the app rop r i- ate m in is t ry that the declared va lue conforms to the actual value of the mach inery and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Depa r tment of the Central Bank must subm it a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank w i t h in 30 days f rom receipt of the request for registration in the o f f ic ial ma rket and a ll pe r t inent documen ta t ion. Thereafter, t a k i ng in to account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for fo re ign exchange purposes within an add i t ional 30 days. In ce r ta in cases, where all documen ta t ion has been subm i t ted, the Central Bank can prov is iona l ly register the inves tment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in fo re ign exchange gran ted to the Government or to off ic ial en t i t ies may be registered for fore ign exchange purposes w i th the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all fo re ign loans, how- ever, reg is tra t ion for statistical purposes is manda to ry. In the case of supp l iers1 credits and s im i l ar credit for financing the impo r ta t ion of merchandise, no special registration procedure is required; all the pe r t inent in fo rma t ion on terms of paymen t s, etc., is con ta ined in the import license, and that provides the basis for purchase of exchange for rem i t tance of in te res t, charges, and scheduled amo r t i z a t ion. Foreign n a t ion a ls are pro- hibited f r om own ing ru ral properties and f r om ow n i ng or ope ra t ing m i n i ng indus t r ies w i t h in 30 miles of Ecuador's coas t l ine or borders. The participation of foreign capital as a direct inve s tment in the b a n a na industry, in domestic who lesa l ing and re ta i l ing, in con- struction, and in real estate deve lopment is also pro- hibited. Foreign exchange at the o f f i c i al ra te may be ob ta ined for the w i thd r aw al of fo r e ign inve s tment f r om Ecuador five years a f ter the da te of reg i s t ra t ion, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Cen tral Bank. Profits accumulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Cen t ral Bank for inves tmen ts which have completed the reg is tra t ion procedure for fo r e ign exchange purposes. For invest- ments registered on a prov is ional basis, no profits may be repatriated through the o f f ic ial ma rke t. Prof it rem i t- tances may not exceed the l im it (20 per cent a y e a r) ECUADOR specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official fore ign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to m a in t a in accounts w i th correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold on ly in the fo rm of filigree work whose gold content represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of mone tary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of non- mone tary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I impor ts eligible for the off ic ial rate. Imports of gold for the produc t ion of jewelry are treated as List II impor ts. Gold bars are exempt f rom impo rt du ty, wh i le that on semiworked gold is 40 per cent ad va lorem. Changes during 1976 January 1. The Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuato- r i a na (CEPE) took over the m a rk e t ing and d is t r ibu t ion of pe t ro leum products. January 1, The impo rt proh ib i t ion for passenger automobiles, light p ickup trucks, and cer ta in other motor vehicles was extended un t il March 31 (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 819). It was then fu r ther extended to September 30 (MBR No. 854), and again un t il December 31 (M BR No. 9 1 7 ). January 30. V i r tua l ly all impor ts f rom Peru, up to a va lue of US$80,000 a shipment, were exempted f rom taxes and res t r ic t ions for one year (Decree-Law No. 59-C). February 4. The term for the payment of collections and for acceptances in respect of goods in List II was increased to 360 days. February 4. The M in i s t ry of Indus tr ies, Commerce, and In teg ra t ion ru led that no direct fo re ign investment in Ecuador wou ld be authorized for the establishment of branches of fo re ign bank ing, insu rance, and financial i n s t i t u t i o n s. The establishment of branches of foreign compan ies in other sectors wou ld on ly be authorized in excep t ional circumstances (Reso lu t ion No. 5 1 ). March 11. Decision No. 47 of the Cartagena Agree- men t, d e f i n i ng m ixed capital and state companies, was imp lemen ted (Decree-Law No. 187). March 20. Fishing boats and related equipment were exempted f r om the 20 per cent advance import deposit (M BR No. 849). March 31. Foreign na tu ral persons investing in new or ex is t ing n a tu r al firms were considered "national inves tors" for purposes of Decision No. 24 of the Carta- gena Ag reemen t, provided they had been resident in Ecuador, w i thout in terrup t ion, for over one year and the invested capital originated in Ecuador, or alterna- 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR lively, when they waived the right to re-export the capi- tal and transfer the profits abroad (Decree No. 239A). March 31. Certain foreign investments in Ecuador that had not been registered by the prescribed deadline could be registered un t il December 31, 1976. This was applicable also to foreign loans taken up by national firms after June 30, 1971 without prior authorization (Decree No. 239B). April 7. With effect f rom June 20, the requirement of a consular invoice for imports was terminated (Decree No. 281 ). April 27. Exports of wheat flour were prohibited. June 1. The ceilings on bank credit to finance advance payments for exports were eliminated (MBR No. 876). June 2. A tax of 1 per cent was imposed on goods temporarily imported and valued at over US$100 c . i . f. June 22. New foreign inves tment in construction was prohibited; real estate development of social benefit was excepted (Resolution No. 307 of the M in is try of Industries, Commerce, and Integration). June 22. Goods in List I were exempted f rom advance import deposit when imported in a barter transac t ion invo lv ing the export of bananas (MBR No. 884). June 22. Imports financed by external credits for public sector projects were exempted from advance import deposit, as were imports financed through external loans administered by the Central Bank and imports for priority projects (MBR No. 886). July 6. The exchange tax on the proceeds of foreign loans was reduced. It was now applied at a range of 2 per cent for maturities of up to 6 months to 0.5 per cent for maturities of 18 to 24 months, while loans with a ma tu r i ty in excess of 24 months were exempt. Previously, the tax was levied at a range from 6 per cent for maturities over 30 months to 2 per cent for maturities under one year, while most credits with a maturity exceeding three years were exempt (Decree No. 506). July 14. The Monetary Board was authorized to direct the Central Bank to intervene in the free exchange market (Decree No. 529). Implementing regulations were issued on August 19 (see below). July 23. Exchange allocations at the official rate for study abroad were increased from a range of US$300- 450 a month to one of US$400-600 a month (MBR No. 893). August 19. The availability of foreign exchange at the official rate for payments of interest on foreign loans was restricted to an interest rate of 10 per cent and to credits registered with the Central Bank; any excess had to be purchased in the free market. The regulation was applicable also to suppliers' credit. There were exemptions for foreign credits taken up by the public sector, provided the fore ign exchange had been sold in the official exchange market (MBR No. 909). August 19. The Central Bank was authorized to in tervene in the free market by purchases and sales of fore ign exchange at rates to be fixed daily. Sales would be made for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) pay- ment of capital and interest in respect of fore ign credits registered w i th the Central Bank, provided the foreign exchange had been converted in the free market prior to August 19; (2) payment for documentaries, films, and news services; ( 3) travel abroad, subject to presen- tation of passport and tickets, up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for countries in South Amer ica and US$1,500 for other coun t r ies; and (4) other purposes, at the dis- cretion of the Central Bank, up to US$500 a person (Decree No. 529 of Ju ly 14 and MBR No. 896 of August 19). The Central Bank began these operations on August 23 by quoting buy ing and selling rates of S/ 27.40 and S/ 27.70 per US$1 for U.S. dollar travelers checks, and of S/ 27.30 and S/ 27.60 per US$1 for U.S. banknotes. On October 1, the limits under (3) and (4) were increased to US$3,500 and US$2,000 a person, respec- tively. On October 20, the items under (2) became eligible for the official exchange rate (MBR No. 922). September 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Venezuela came into force. September 27. The Central Bank required notifica- tion of all forward agreements to export goods (other than hydrocarbons), within eight days of the contract (MBR No. 918). November 10. The limit on t rans fe rs of profits, divi- dends, and interest on foreign capital was raised from 14 per cent to 20 per cent per annum. December 3. A reciprocal credit agreement with Chile came into force. December 8. The import prohibition for various types of motor vehicles was lifted with effect from J a n u a ry 1, 1977, when they became subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Integration (except certain jeep-type vehicles) and to an advance import deposit of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value (MBR No. 929). December 14. Bananas were exempted export taxation. December 31. CEPE took over the holdings in Ecuador of a foreign petroleum producer. from all 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par v a lue for the E g y p t i an Pound was es tab l ished by the A r ab Repub l ic of Egypt w i th the Fund. Howeve r, exchange t r an s a c t ions no longer t ake p lace at ra tes based on t h at par v a l u e. Most exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns take place at ra tes based on the official ra te of LE 1 = US$2 .55555. The C e n t r al Bank of Egyp t 's o f f i c i al b u y i ng and s e l l ing ra tes for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1976 we re L EO . 3 9 1 3 05 and LE 0 .395218, re spec t ive ly, per US$1. Rates of exchange in a p a r a l l el m a r k et a re d e t e rm i n ed in the l ight of p r e v a i l i ng f o r e i gn exchange cons idera- tions. On December 31, 1976 the b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates for the U .S. do l l ar in th is m a r k et we re LE 0.700 and L EO . 7 1 4, re spec t ive ly, p er U S $ 1. In a d d i t i o n, cer ta in t r an s a c t ions t ake place at f r e e ly nego t ia ted exchange ra tes; on December 3 1, 1976 the r a te in th is m a rk et was about LE 0.75 per US$ 1. O f f ic ial ra tes and para l lel m a rk et ra tes for 15 other conver t ib le cu r renc ies 1 are based on cross ra tes quoted in New Yo rk. Fo rwa rd cover in the o f f i c i al exchange market is ava i lab le for f o r e i gn t rade t r a n s a c t i o n s, at a charge of 3 per cen t. Banks do not requ i re p r ior exchange con t rol app roval to deal among themselves in fo re ign cu r renc ies or to engage in arb i trage transactions abroad; nor is such approval requ i red for t r an s a c t ions e f fec ted th rough the parallel exchange ma rket or for ba lances held in specified fo re ign cu r r en cy a c coun t s. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is supervised by a Comm i t t ee for Foreign Exchange, wh ich is set up by the M in i s t er of Economy and Economic Cooperation. The exchange control laws, m i n i s t e r i al orders, and i n s t r u c t i o ns of the M in is ter are carr ied out by a D i rec to r -Gene ral of For- eign Exchange A f f a i rs appointed by h im. A fo re ign exchange budget is established a n n u a l l y. Exchange con- trol is imp lemen ted under the superv is ion and in s t ru c t ions of the Undersecre tary for Foreign Exchange A f f a i rs and the D irec tor-General of Fore ign Exchange A f f a i r s. The technical work of exchange con trol is pe r fo rmed by the General Adm in i s t ra t ion for Foreign Exchange A f f a i rs attached to the a fo re -men t ioned Unde rsec re ta ry. Banks are authorized to execu te fo re ign exchange t r an s a c t ion s, within the f ramewo rk of a general a u t h o r i z a t i o n, w i th- out need to ob ta in specific exchange con t rol app rova l. The M in is try of Trade supervises impor ts and exports. Imports are controlled by exchange a l loca t ions ra ther than by import licenses. Cer ta in impo r ts and exports iThe convertible cu r renc ies are listed as A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k ron e r, deutsche m a r k, French f r an c s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Nor- wegian k ron e r, Po r tugue se escudos, p o u n ds s t e r l ing, Swed ish k r o n e r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said C i ty is a f ree zone. Prescription of Currency P a ym e n ts to and f rom coun t r ies w i th which Egypt does not have b i la te ral paymen ts agreements may be made in any conve r t ib le cu r r en cy ;1 in Egyp t ian pounds or a conv e r t ib le cu r rency to the debit or cred it of the a p p r o p r i a te Free Accoun t; or in any other m a n n er pre- sc r ibed or p e rm i t t ed by the Fore ign Exchange Regu la- t i o ns M a n u a l. However, the proceeds f r om exports of raw co t ton to conve r t ib le cu r rency coun t r ies must be received in deu tsche m a r k, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. do l lars ( in a d d i t i o n, in French f r a n cs and Japanese y en for expo r ts to France and J a p a n, re spec t ive ly ). S e t t l em e n ts w i th c o u n t r i es w i th wh ich Egypt has pay- m e n ts ag reemen ts are made according to the te rms of those ag reemen t s .2 Howeve r, p aym ent to such coun t r ies for "own exchange" impo r ts and va r ious other purposes may be made in conve r t ib le cu r renc ies. Ce r ta in settle- m e n ts w i th coun t r i es w i th wh ich i n d em n i ty agreemen ts c o n c e r n i ng c om p e n s a t i on for n a t i o n a l i z ed p rope r ty a re in force are made th rough special accounts in Egyp t ian pounds w i th the Cen t ral Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be pa id by d e b i t i ng Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Pay- ment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign C u r r e n c y, or Free Accoun ts in Egyp t ian Pounds/ O f f ic ial M a rk e t. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in fo r e ign cu r rency and ba lances a re re transferab le ab road. Nonresident Accounts •'• In add i t ion to the special accounts related to Egypt's b i l a t e r al p aym en ts agreements or to the indemn i ty ag reemen ts concluded w i th certain countries, there are four m a in types of accounts which may be opened by non res iden ts: Free Accounts, Special Accounts, D Accounts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyp t ian Gov e rnm en t, public au thor i t ies, and public sector entities. They may be - On December 31, 1976, Egypt had b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w i th A lban ia, Bu lg a r i a, People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, G e rm an Democra t ic Repub l ic, Greece, N o r th Korea, Mongo l ia, Sudan, U .S .S .R ., V iet N am, and Yemen A r ab Repub l ic. In add i t ion, for the financing of t r a de in ce r ta in specified commod i t ies, c red it fac i l i t ies had been established be tween the C en t r al Bank of Egypt and the cen tral banks of G h a n a, I n d i a, Jo rd an, Ma l i, Somalia, and Sri L ank a. There was also a special p aym en ts a r r ang em ent at the commercial bank level w i th Bang lade sh and an i n o p e r a t i ve a r r a n g em e nt w i th the Peo- ple's Democra t ic Republic of Yemen. W i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977, s e t t l em en ts w i th A lb an i a, Bang lade sh, B u l g a r i a, I n d i a, and Sri L a n ka we re placed on a conver t ib le cu r rency basis, the paymen ts a r r ang em en ts w i th these coun t r ies h av ing exp ired on December 31, 1976. :i The exchange con trol r egu l a t ions issued November 27, 1976 elin.» na ted m any of the prev ious d i f fe rences in t r e a tm e nt of resident and non re s ident persons. D A c coun ts and Nonconve r t ib le Cap i tal Accoun ts a re by t h e ir n a t u re l im i t ed to nonresidents, while accoun ts for the re ten t ion of fo r e ign cu r rency receipts f r om exports and non fac tor se rv ices a re in e f f e ct l im i t ed to res iden ts. Other a c c o u n ts a re f r ee of residency d is t inc t ions. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT opened either in foreign currency or Egyptian pounds (related to either the official market or the parallel mar- ke t ); the latter are freely convertible at the relevant exchange rate. Free Accounts may be credited w i th any convertible currency t rans fe r red f rom abroad or w i th the proceeds f rom the sale of such currencies; w i th t rans fe rs f rom other Free Accounts; w i th proceeds f rom the sale of foreign banknotes which the holder has declared upon en try into Egypt; w i th interest on the accounts; and w i th the equ iva lent of any payment autho- rized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments abroad in any convertible currency; for t rans- fers to other Free Accounts and to Special Accounts; for purchases of fo re ign bankno tes or other means of payment; for any paymen ts in Egypt, inc lud ing those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. Special Accounts in fore ign currency may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyp t ian Gove rnmen t, pub l ic authorities, and public sector enti- ties. They may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of acceptable foreign bankno tes; w i th t ran s fe rs f r om Free Accoun ts or other Special Accounts; and w i th in terest on the accounts. They may be debited for pay- men ts for imports; for either t rans fe rs abroad, or pur- chases of fo re ign bankno tes or o ther means of paymen t, to cover the expenses abroad of the account ho lder or his f am i ly (w i t h in a l im it of LE 2,000 a y e a r ); for o ther au tho r ized paymen ts abroad; for local fo re ign cu r rency p aym en t s; and for purchases of fo re ign bankno tes or o ther means of payment for use in Egypt. D Accounts may be opened in the n ame of any resi- dent of a coun t ry w i th which Egypt has a paymen ts agreement (see footnote 2). The accoun ts must be designated by the name of the pa r tner coun t ry con- cerned. These accounts may be credited w i th receipts u n d er b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts and w i th the equ iva lent of t r an s f e rs au thor ized to the coun t ry of the account holder. They may be debited for t r an s f e rs to the coun t ry of the account holder and for local paymen ts ( inc lud ing those for Egyp t ian expo r ts) au tho r ized by the imp lemen t ing regulations and w i t h in the scope of the re levant b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen t. There are also Nonconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a cap i tal n a tu re to a fore ign na t ional l iv ing abroad wh ich is not rem i t- table under the exchange control regu la t ions. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due f r om the account holders. Accounts held by ind iv idua ls may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by account holders. Accounts held by ju r id ical persons may be debited for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities and for paymen ts to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection w i th the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are nonconvertible; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. 162 Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients of the proceeds f rom certain exports and nonfac tor services, and may be credited with the proceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for paymen ts in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activi- ties (subject to payment of the 2 per cent differential between the parallel market buy ing and selling rates, for parallel ma rket accoun ts ), or for surrender of the for- e ign currency at the app rop r ia te exchange rate. Any balances in such accounts on June 30 or December 31 of any ca lendar year must be used w i th in three months or surrendered. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of certain goods f rom any source, and all imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica, are proh ib i ted. No exchange is allocated in practice for m a ny goods t h at are considered nonessen t ial or that are also produced locally, although most commodities may be impo r ted provided the necessary fore ign exchange is acquired outside the parallel or official markets. Imports f inanced under b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen ts, certain basic goods, and ce r ta in imports by the Ministries of Pe tro leum, T r an spo r t a t ion, and Commun ica t ions are f inanced at the official ra te. Other impor ts are financed at the parallel market rate or take place under the "own exchange" a r rangemen t s. Most impo r ts f r om p aym en ts ag reement coun tr ies (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- m e n t s ), as well as impor ts of specified goods f rom any source, are reserved for the public sector. A Supreme Council for the P l a n n i ng of Foreign Trade is en t ru s ted w i th es tab l ish ing long- term policy for exports and impo r ts, con t ro l l ing the a n n u al export and impo rt p lan, and supe rv is ing the execution of the fore ign exchange budge t. The m in is t r ies concerned are respon- sible for se t t ing priorities regard ing imports and their t im i n g, w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of s em i a n n u al fo re ign exchange p rog rams. Foreign t rade comm i t tees in the va r ious m in is t r ies, au thor i t ies, and other public sector en t i t ies consider import and export o f fe rs for the goods w i th in the ir ju r i sd ic t ion, in the light of specifications, prices, delivery dates, and means of paymen t. Approval by a fo r e ign t rade comm i t tee cons t i tu tes the necessary au tho r iza t ion for the imp lemen ta t ion of import trans- actions. Pr iva te sector impo r ts through the parallel mar- ket requ ire approval by the Commerc ial Agency for the Para l lel Ma rke t. For purposes of a dm i n i s t r a t i o n, the economy is d iv ided in to several sectors ( a g r i c u l t u r a l, industrial, t r an spo r t a t ion, e t c . ). The annu al fore ign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be impo r ted w i t h in that quota. By v i r tue of Order No. 478 of 1973, all goods may be imported w i thout an impo rt pe rm i t; imports are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution regulated by exchange a l l o c a t i o ns ra ther t h an by im p o rt licenses. By v i r tue of O rder No. 1058 of 1975, all c omm o d i t i es except those appea r ing in a special list may be impo r ted, prov ided that no pu rcha se of f o r e i gn exchange in the official or parallel ma rke ts is invo lved. A special Deter- m i n a t i on Comm i t t ee mu st f i r st app rove the t e rms of the t r an s a c t ion. C e r t a in impo r t ed goods may a lso be sold for fo r e ign c u r r e n cy to E g y p t i a ns and f o r e i g n e rs at special shops. An econom ic d ev e lopm ent tax of 10 per cent of the c . i .f. v a l ue is p a y a b le on im p o r t s; the tax is 5 per c ent for ce r ta in h igh ly essen t ial food s tu f fs impo r ted by the M i n i s t ry of Supp ly. A s t a t i s t i c al tax of 1 per cent of the c . i . f. v a l ue is p ay ab le on a ll im p o r ts except w h e a t. Payments for Invisibles Banks a re au tho r ized to p r o v i de ex ch ange for pay- men ts f or c e r t a in i n v i s i b l es in a c co rd an ce w i th g e n e r al au tho r iza t ions and in s t ru c t ions and up to spec if ic quo ta s. E g y p t i an n a t i o n a ls w ho h ave depos i ted e a r n i n gs f r om the ir wo rk ab road, or f r om serv ices p e r f o rm ed for n o n- res iden ts, in Free A c coun ts or Spec ial A c coun t s, may u se th is f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge f r e e l y, as i n d i c a t ed be low. Other res iden ts may purchase, t h r o u gh local b anks and up to spec i f ied am o u n t s, the f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge r e q u i r ed for t r av el expenses and c e r t a in o th er pu rposes, at the p a r a l l el m a r k et ra te. A d d i t i o n al f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge m ay be ob t a in ed t h r o u gh the f r ee m a r k et as f o l l ow s: ( 1) by open ing a Free A c count and c r e d i t i ng it w i th f o r e i gn exchange or c o n v e r t i b le E g y p t i an p o u n ds o b t a i n ed f r om another holder of Free Account ba lances, a f t er w h i ch the ho lder is f r ee to u se the f u n ds t h us a c q u i r ed to meet expenses ab road f or i n v i s i b l es w i t h o ut l i m i t; or ( 2) by open ing a Spec ial A c c o u nt and c r e d i t i ng it w i th f o r e i gn cu r rency f r om a ny sou rce or w i th f o r e i gn ex ch ange obtained f r om ano ther ho lder of Special A c c o u nt ba l- ances, a f t er w h i ch the h o l d er is f r ee to u se the f u n ds thus ob ta ined to meet expen ses ab road for i n v i s i b l es up to a l i m it of LE 2,000 a y e a r. V i r t u a l ly a ll n o n g o v e r nm e nt p a ym e n ts f or c u r r e nt invisibles due in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy and not r e l a t ed to t rade t r a n s a c t i o ns m u st be se t t led in the p a r a l l el m a r- ket. The f o l l o w i ng p a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es t ake place at the o f f i c i al r a t e: g o v e r nm e nt p a ym e n t s; s p e c i f i ed types of p a ym e n ts r e l a t i ng to s h i p p i n g; e x p o rt expen ses p ay- able at the o f f i c i al r a t e; r e p a t r i a t i on of am o u n ts b r o u g ht in at the o f f i c i al r a t e; d i v i d e n ds a c c r u i ng to p a r t i c i p a n ts in jo int v en tu r e s; r e i n s u r a n ce p a ym e n ts and i n d em n i t i es d ue f r om i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i e s; p e n s i o n s; b a nk expen ses and c omm i s s i o ns due to f o r e i gn c o r r e s p o n d e n ts for t r an s a c t ions s e t t l ed at t he o f f i c i al r a t e; a nd r e p a ym e nt of pub l ic and i n t e r n a t i o n al c omm i tm e n ts as w e ll as the payment of am o r t i z a t i on and in te re st due on t r an s a c t ions settled at the o f f i c i al ra te. Travelers may not expo rt mo re t h an LE 20 in Egyp- tian pound b a n k n o t e s. E g y p t i an t r a v e l e rs m ay t a ke w i th EGYPT them any fo r e ign exchange wh i ch t h ey have acqu ired l e g i t im a t e l y; fo re ign t rave le rs l e av ing Egypt may recon- ve rt t h e ir r e m a i n i ng Egyp t i an pounds a f t er d edu c t ion of LE 20 for each n ight spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apa rt f r om exports to I s rae l, Rhod e s i a, and South A f r i c a, wh ich a re p roh ib i t ed, and commod i t ies r equ i r ed for the na t ional economy, whose export may be restricted, expo r ts may be made f r ee of l icense. Expor ts of m a ny p roduc ts a re o rgan ized and supe rv i sed by f o r e i gn t rade c omm i t t e e s. Co t ton, r ice, and p e t ro l eum a re exported by the p u b l ic sector o n l y. The proceeds in conv e r t ib le cu r r en c i es f r om expo r ts of raw co t ton, cotton y a rn and co t ton t e x t i l e s, r ice, p e t r o l e um and p e t ro l eum p roduc ts ,4 potatoes, fresh on ions and garlic, cemen t, and re-exported f o r e i gn goods im p o r t ed at the o f f i c i al ra te mu st be su r- r end e r ed at the o f f i c i al ra te. O ther expo rt proceeds a re e l i g i b le for the p a r a l l el m a r k et ra te; the same app l i es to 50 per cent of any proceeds in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy in excess of the a n n u al export targets for cemen t, cotton y a r n, a nd co t ton t ex t i l e s. E x p o rt proceeds e l i g i b le f or t he p a r a l l el m a r k et m ay be r e t a i n ed in Fo re ign Exchange R e t e n t i on A c coun t s, s u b j e ct to p e r i o d ic s u r r e n d er of u n u t i l i z ed ba lance s. Expo rt proceeds other t h an those of the pe tro leum sec- t or m u st be r e p a t r i a t ed a nd s u r r e n d e r ed w i t h in th ree m o n t hs f r om the da te of s h i pm e nt of the goods. Pro- ceeds f r om expo r ts to p aym en ts ag r e em ent c o u n t r i es m u st be ob t a in ed in acco rdance w i th the p r o v i s i o ns of the r e l e v a nt ag r e em en t. Some expo r ts to specified coun- t r i es m ay be se t t led t h r o u gh i n d e m n i ty accoun ts. Proceeds from Invisibles The o f f i c i al ra te a p p l i es to a ll rece ip ts t h r o u gh pay- m en ts a g r e em e nt a c coun ts and to the f o l l ow i ng receipts in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s: Suez C a n al and Sumed P ipe- l i ne dues; n av ig a t ion charges, sh ip repa irs, and supply of p r o v i s i o n s; i n t e r e st on o f f i c i al m a r k et c ap i t al i tem s; a nd local e x p e n d i t u r es by i n t e r n a t i o n al o r g a n i z a t i o ns a nd f o r e i gn g o v e r nm e n t s. A i r l i ne t icke ts pu rcha sed by fo r- e i g n e rs not r e s i d e nt in Egypt for at least f ive years or not exemp ted for v a r i o us spec ial reasons, must be pa id for w i th E g y p t i an p o u n ds a c q u i r ed at the o f f i c i al ra te. The p a r a l l el m a r k et ra te app l ies to o ther conv e r t ib le c u r r e n cy r e c e ip t s. E a r n i n gs ab road by pe rsons o ther th an the G o v e r n- m e n t, p u b l ic a u t h o r i t i e s, and o ther pub l ic sector en t i t ies may be h e ld abroad or r e t a i n ed i n d e f i n i t e ly in Free Accoun ts. Rece ip ts f r om the p rov is ion of local hotel, t r a n s p o r t, or t ravel agent se rv ices to tou r i s ts may be r e t a i n ed in Fo re ign Exchange R e t e n t i on Accoun t s. M any p u b l ic sector and o ther e n t i t i es a re pe rm i t ted to r e t a in a ll or p a rt of t h e ir receipts f r om inv i s ib l es in Fore ign Exchange Re ten t ion Accoun ts, and in m a ny instances a re e x em pt f r om the pe r iod ic su r r end er r equ i r em en ts of 4 The s u r r e n d er of o b l i g a t o r y. the r e c e ip ts of the p e t r o l e um sector is not 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by fore igners may be f inanced f rom v a r ious special accoun ts, such as those under ind emn i ty agreements w i th certain countries. Persons a r r iv ing in Egypt f r om abroad may impo rt up to LE 20 in Egyptian pound banknotes and are per- m i t ted to b r ing in, and to use loca l ly, u n l im i t ed amoun ts in fo re ign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Foreign travelers must convert in to Egyp t ian cu r rency the e q u i v a l e nt of LE 100 to ob ta in an en t ry v isa. Capital Egyptian na t iona ls who have deposited fo re ign ea rn- ings in Free Accoun ts in Egyp t ian banks may use this fore ign exchange for any purpose, i n c l u d i ng t r a n s f er abroad. With this excep t ion, ou twa rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs are severely restricted, a l though residents are effectively able to t r a n s f er un l im i t ed am o u n ts abroad th rough t r an s- actions in the f ree ma rket (see section on Paymen ts for Inv is ib les, above ). Egyp t ian em igran ts are authorized to transfer abroad f u n ds up to LE 500 a person or LE 2,000 a f am i l y; to take out jewelry and other va lu- ables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a f am i l y; and to export other personal effects and f u r n i t u re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a f am i l y. Authorized banks are empowered to impo r t, export, and nego t ia te secur i t ies and to e f fect t r a n s f e rs re la ted to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or fo re ign securities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and A lexand r ia are au thor ized to in te rmed ia te in the transfer of ownersh ip of securities, whether at home or abroad. T rans fe rs of accrued a l imony are permitted in accordance w i th court orders. An amount not exceed ing LE 5,000 a f am i l y — i r r e- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a fam i ly 's assets in Egypt to persons of fo re ign na t iona l i ty who leave the coun try f ina l ly after a period of residence of at least five years. Any am o u nt above this l im it is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital n a t u re not rem i t tab le und er the exchange con- trol regulations must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of J u ne 19, 1974 Conce rn ing the Invest- ment of Arab and Foreign Funds and Concern ing Free Trade Zones defines the t r e a tm ent of new fo re ign invest- ments. Remittances of dividends covered by this law are eligible for the off ic ial exchange rate. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are con- sidered on an ind iv idual basis, and approved t ran s fe rs take place at the parallel market rate. Gold Au thor ized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad, for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts, gold ( inc lud ing gold coins) and other precious metals. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit 164 and may subsequently re-export them. The mone tary au tho r i t ies and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users a re allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm. Other residents may on ly hold and acqu i re gold coins and gold jewelry in Egypt. There is a f r ee ma rket for gold coins in Cairo. W i th the above excep t ion s, impo r ts and expo r ts of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry are restricted. Changes during 1976 January 1. Port Said City became a f r ee zone. January 1. Fo l low ing the exp ira t ion on December 31, 1975 of the b i la teral paymen ts agreements with Hun- g a ry, I r aq, and Po land, se t t lemen ts w i th these coun tr ies were placed on a conver t ib le currency basis. January 6. A g r e em e nt was reached w i th Sri L a n ka to place se t t lemen ts on a convertible currency basis with e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. February L Conver t ib le cu r r en cy impo r ts of a num- ber of commod i t ies were sh i f ted to the parallel marke t. February 11. The b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reement w i th Greece was sub s tan t ia l ly mod if ied. February 19. The parallel ma rket p r em ium and sur- charge over the o f f ic ial ra te we re inc reased f rom 50 per cent and 55 per cent to 65 per cent and 70 per cent, r e s u l t i ng in b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes of LE 0.645653 and LE 0.665218, respectively, per US$1. Previously, these rates were LEO .586957 and LE 0.606522, respectively, per US$1. February 28. M in is te r ial Decree No. 227 restricted "own exchange" impo r ts by non res iden ts to capital goods, raw ma ter ia ls, and in te rmed ia te goods. April 15. Agreement was reached w i th A lban ia to place settlements on a convertible currency basis with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1977. April 30. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement with Algeria expired. May 1. Conver t ib le cu r rency impo r ts of a number of commodities were sh i f ted to the parallel market. The sh i f ts of Feb rua ry 1 and May 1 represented (at annual ra te s) 25 per cent of the total impor ts provided for in the 1976 fo re ign exchange budget. May 1. Customs va lua t ion henceforth was based on the exchange rate applicable to the transaction; pre- v ious ly, the o f f ic ial rate had been applied un iform ly. For "own exchange" imports, the exchange rate for customs v a lu a t ion purposes wou ld be the parallel mar- ket rate. May 19. The b i la te ral payments agreement w i th Spain expired. May 20. The parallel ma rket p rem ium and surcharge over the off ic ial ra te were increased to 74 per cent and 79 per cent, resulting in buy ing and selling rates of LE 0.680870 and LE 0.700435, respectively, per US$1. June 30. The bilateral payments agreements with Gu inea, Morocco, Rom an i a, and Turkey expired. July 29. Ministerial Decree No. 1024 required that prior approval be obtained for all "own exchange" ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution impo r ts (o th er t h an goods impo r t ed u n d er v a r i o us spe- cial p rov i s ion s, m a i n ly for pe r sonal u s e ). P rev iou s ly, re s ident E g y p t i an n a t i o n a ls cou ld im p o rt w i t h o ut p r ior app roval c o n s i g nm e n ts v a l u ed ( at t he o f f i c i al r a t e) at up to LE 5,000. August 26. Law No. 81 of Augu st 14 was gazetted and came i n to fo r c e. W i t h o ut p r e j u d i ce to the p rov i- sions of Law No. 43 of 1974, it p r o h i b i t ed n o n - E g y p t i an n a t u r al a nd j u r i d i c al persons f r om a c q u i r i ng o ther t h an by i n h e r i t a n ce the ow n e r s h ip of im p r o v ed real e s ta te and vacant l and in Egyp t. T he p r o h i b i t i on a p p l i ed to f u ll own e r sh ip, the ow n e r s h ip of c o n t r o l, the r i g h ts of u s u- f ru c t, and leases for periods in excess of 50 years. Non- Egyp t i an j u r i d i c al persons we re he ld to i n c l u de any company in wh i ch E g y p t i a ns d id not c o n t r ol at lea st two th i rds of the c a p i t a l. There we re e x c e p t i o ns for ( 1) com- pan ies op e r a t ing u n d er the Fore ign I n v e s tm e nt Law; ( 2) d i p l om a t ic a nd c o n s u l ar m i s s i o ns a nd i n t e r n a t i o n al agencies or o r g a n i z a t i o n s; ( 3) i n d i v i d u a l s' re s idences or places of bus iness ( s u b j e ct to the a p p r o v al of the Counc il of M i n i s t e rs a nd p rov id ed t h at t he f u ll v a l ue was conver ted in c o n v e r t i b le f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy at the o f f ic ial r a t e ); a nd ( 4) a c q u i s i t i on t h r o u gh i n h e r i t a n ce or prior to the law's com ing in to force. Fu r the rmo re, the Coun c il of M in i s t e rs cou ld m a ke ex c ep t ions to a ll or pa rt of the cond i t ion s. There we re v a r i o us p rov i s ions dea l ing w i th an ob l ig a t ion to erect b u i l d i n gs on v a c a nt land and w i th a f ive -year p r o h i b i t i on on the t r a n s f er of ownersh ip. August 28. Law No. 97 of 1976 on the R e g u l a t i on of Foreign Exchange T ransac t ions was gaze t ted, to become e f fec t ive on November 29. The p r i n c i p al change f r om previous l eg i s l a t ion was the e l i m i n a t i on of any ob l iga- tion for n a t u r al or j u r i d i c al persons in the p r i v a te sector to su r r end er fo re ign c u r r e n cy rece ip ts or h o l d i n gs o ther than proceeds f rom expo r ts or t o u r i sm. Such persons were pe rm i t ted to u n d e r t a ke any f o r e i gn exchange t r a n s- action, w i t h in the coun t ry or ab road, p rov ided t h at it took place th rough an au tho r i z ed dea ler in f o r e i gn exchange. All export proceeds had to be r e p a t r i a t ed within three mon ths f r om the da te of s h i pm e n t, but th is period was not applicable to proceeds f rom books, news- papers, magaz ines, and pe r iod ica ls. The a u t h o r i t i es w e re empowered to g rant exemp t ions f r om the r e p a t r i a t i on requirement, and to au tho r i ze the r e t e n t i on of a ll or part of the exchange proceeds f r om expo r ts and t o u r i sm, to be u t i l ized w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of the s ta te f o r e i gn EGYPT exchange budge t. Au tho r ized b anks were pe rm i t ted to und e r t ake a ll types of fo re ign exchange t ran sac t ion s, i n c l u d i ng the accep tance of deposits and cover ing the ir f o r e i gn cu r r en cy assets f o rw a r d. The app l ica t ion of the provisions of the new law could not supersede the pro- v i s ions of Law No. 43 of 1974, Law No. 137 of 1974, or Law No. 118 of 1975. Revoked were Law No. 80 of 1947 and Law No. 98 of 1957. The regu la t ion of c a p i t al t r a n s a c t i o ns and c ap i t al t r a n s f e r s, and of impo r ts and expo r ts of p rec ious me ta ls and gems, as we ll as v a r i o us o ther aspec ts, were l e ft to be spec i f ied by m i n i s- t e r i al decrees to be issued w i t h in th ree mon ths. October 15. An agreement w i th the EEC on t rade a nd econom ic coope ra t ion w as i n i t i a l e d. November 27. M i n i s t e r i al Decree No. 316 of 1976 issued the Fore ign Exchange R egu l a t ions M a n u al imp l e- m e n t i ng Law No. .97 of 1976. On the same date a large n um b er of c i r cu l a rs we re issued by the G en e r al A dm i n- i s t r a t i on for Fo re ign Exchange. The m a in changes were as f o l l ow s: ( 1) in t he p a r a l l el m a r k e t, t he s e l l ing r a te h e n c e f o r th was set at 2 per cent above the b u y i ng ra te (exp re s sed as the dome s t ic c u r r e n cy p r ice of fo r e ign e x c h a n g e ), and the b u y i ng and s e l l i ng ra tes were depre- c ia ted to LEO . 70 and LEO . 7 1 4, respec t ive ly, per US$1; (2) a n um b er of r e s t r i c t ions on r e t en t ion and use of f o r e i gn exchange were e l im i n a t e d, wh i ch had the e f fect of l e g i t im i z i ng an exchange m a r k et in wh ich p r iv a te sector e n t i t i es were f ree to c a r ry out a v a r i e ty of t r a n s- a c t i o ns at f r e e ly n ego t i a t ed exchange ra te s; (3) exchange a l l o c a t i o ns for c u r r e nt inv i s ib l es we re s u b s t a n t i a l ly increased and res tr ic t ions on cap i tal ou tf lows were eased; (4) the d i s t i n c t i on for exchange con t rol purposes be tween re s iden ts and n o n r e s i d e n ts was abolished in m a ny in s t an c e s, p a r t i c u l a r ly for most types of ex t e rn al a c c o u n t s; a n um b er of types of such accoun ts were e l im i- n a t ed, a nd t he r e g u l a t i o ns r eg a rd ing t he r e m a i n i ng ones we re changed. November 28. Ag reement was reached w i th B u l g a r ia to place se t t lemen ts on a conve r t ib le cu r r en cy bas is w i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. November 29. The m i n i m um conve rs ion r e q u i r em e nt for fore ign tou r is ts was increased f rom <£ stg. 75 to LE 100. December 31. The b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag r e em en ts w i th A l b a n i a, Bu lg a r i a, Ind i a, and S ri Lanka exp i red. The spec ial p a ym e n ts a r r a n g em e nt w i th B ang l ad e sh also exp i red. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.294665 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are 0 2.49 buy ing, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks w i th the public take place at or w i th in these limits. A s tamp tax of Vio of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as d r a f ts and other documen ts embody- ing a right to exchange; on amounts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amoun ts that may be slightly in excess of Vio of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Mone ta ry Board, exchange con t rol au tho r i ty is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Depar tmen t. Au tho r i ty to approve ce r ta in paymen ts, inc lud ing most import payments, is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports must be ob ta ined f rom the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities requ ire licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Economy or of Ag r icu l tu re. Expo r ts of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Com- pany and requ i re licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of t rade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those coun tr ies or in Salvadoran colones th rough the Cama ra de Compen- sacion Cen troamer icana, a clearinghouse established by the cen tral banks of Cen t ral Ame r ica to fos ter the process of economic in tegra t ion of their coun tr ies. Pay- men ts to Mexico are in p r inc ip le also settled through the clearinghouse, but this a r rangement has been suspended since September 1, 1976. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized paymen ts in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other fo re ign ins t i tu t ions or persons established in El Sa lvador may hold nonresident accounts in fo re ign currency w i th banks au thor ized by the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t, 166 provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received f rom abroad. Banks also may freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amoun t, in the names of physical persons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran na t iona l i ty) who reside abroad, and, for a max imum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and are requ ired for only a few items; these are mainly airplanes, firearms, ammun i t ion, m i l i tary equipment, dynam i te, cotton for indu s t r ial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports f rom all countries must be registered with the Cen t ral Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports f rom coun tr ies outside Central Ame r ica must be approved by the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. For app roval purposes, imports are grouped in to three classes, accord ing to the ir terms of paymen t, as ind ica ted below. ( 1) Impo r ts for which the te rms of payment do not exceed a ce r ta in m a x im um period (coun ted f rom the date of en t ry of the me rchand ise in to a customs warehouse), as fo l low s: (a) Impor ts of raw m a t e r i a ls for indus try, iron and steel produc ts for the construction industry, hand tools, v a r ious spare pa r t s, and greases and lubri- can ts, when the te rms of payment do not exceed three years.1 (b) Impo r ts of basic food products and medi- cal and surgical supplies, when the terms of payment do not exceed one yea r .2 Impor ts of the fo l low ing goods are not subject to m a x im um credit te rms: machinery and e q u i pm e nt for a g r i c u l t u re and i n d u s t r y, semipro- cessed goods for i n d u s t r i al p roduc t ion, surg ical equip- m e n t, resea rch and e d u c a t i o n al e q u i pm e n t, sc ien t i f ic, techn ica l, or c u l t u r al books, and f e r t i l i z e r s, insecticides, f u n g i c i d e s, and herbicides. (2) For c e r t a in goods th at are cons idered nonessen- t i a l, the Exchange Con trol Depa r tment cannot authorize im p o r t a t i on un less an advance deposit requ irement is 1 Four y e a rs wh en the goods o r i g i n a te in c o u n t r i es w i th which El S a l v a d or had a f a v o r a b le b a l an ce of t r a de in the p r e v i o us c a l end ar y e a r, f r om wh ich it rece ives loans w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or w i th wh i ch an i n t e g r a t i on t r e a ty is in f o r ce or w i th wh ich El S a lv ador m a i n t a i ns e conom ic t ies. - E i g h t e en m o n t hs wh en the goods o r i g i n a te in c o u n t r i es w i th wh ich El Sa lvador had a f a v o r a b le b a l an ce of t r a de in the p rev ious ca lendar y e a r, f r om wh ich it rece ives loans w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or w i th wh i ch an i n t e g r a t i on t r e a ty is in f o r ce or w i th wh ich El Sa lvador m a i n t a i ns econom ic t ie s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution met in local currency, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue. In add i t ion, the c . i . f. va lue of the goods be ing imported must be paid at the t ime of impo rt registration. They inc lude specified nonessen t ial food products, con fec t ione ry, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, pe r fumes, cosmetics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, f u r n i t u r e, domestic appliances, and ce r ta in textiles. Small businesses are exempt f rom the advance deposit requ i remen t, subject to ce r ta in cond i t ion s, for impo r ts up to US$30,000 a year of goods not produced in El Salvador. The rules rega rd ing the deposit r equ i r em ent are flexible. The Cen t ral Reserve Bank may exempt imports of th is type when they are considered essential for the economic deve lopment of the coun t ry. (3) The purchase of imports not covered under ( 1) or (2) above may only be authorized by the Exchange Control Depar tment sub ject to the cond i t ion that the impo rt is pa id for be fo re the goods are reg is tered in the customs warehouse. Impor ts f r om coun t r ies ou t s ide the C en t r al Ame r ican Common M a rk et th at app ly d i s c r im i n a t o ry re s t r ic t ions against exports f rom El Salvador also must be paid for before customs c lea rance, w i th the excep t ion of i n d u s- trial raw ma te r ia ls, wh ich may be pa id for w i th in three years (m ed i c in es f r om Mex ico may be pa id for w i t h in 90 days; this applies also to im p o r ts of spa re pa r ts f r om Mexico by impo r te rs t h at the C e n t r al Re se rve Bank con- siders as sma ll e n t e r p r i s e s ). The comme rc ial banks are au tho r ized to p rov ide exchange for a ll impo rt p aym en t s, up to US$100 for each order, for noncommerc ial impo r ts (such as med i- cines, va r ious spare pa r t s, and s im i l ar i t e m s ). When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for com- mod i t ies covered by ( 1) or (3) above, a p r ior depos it of 10 per cent c a l cu l a t ed on the v a l ue of the advance payment is requ i red f r om the im p o r t er as a g u a r a n t e e, but i n d u s t r i al and a g r i c u l t u r al f i rms may be exemp ted. The depos it r e q u i r em e nt of 100 per cent for goods covered by (2) above serves as a g u a r a n t ee in the case of advance paymen t. (Goods not covered by (2) and v a lu ed at US$500 or less are ex empt f r om the 10 per cent deposit on the v a lue of the advance pay- m en t .) Gu a r an t ee depos i ts a re r e f u n d ed wh en the goods a r r ive in the c o u n t r y, p rov ided t h at p a ym e nt in fu ll has been made to the expo r te r. Impor ts f r om other C e n t r al Am e r i c an c o u n t r i e s, wh en covered by the Free T rade Ag r e em en t, are exempt from the exchange con t rol r e g u l a t i o ns set f o r th above. Imports f rom P an ama that are covered by the Free Trade A g r e em e nt of J u ne 2, 1970 are a lso ex emp t. Imports o r ig ina t ing outside the Cen tral Am e r i c an Common M a rk et a re sub ject to an im p o rt su r ch a rge of 30 per cent of the app l icab le impo rt d u t y; the su rcha rge is not applied to c e r t a in i n d u s t r i al e q u i pm e nt and raw materials that a re d u ty f r ee by v i r t ue of the I n d u s t r i al Incentives Law. Many n o n e s s e n t i al goods are sub ject to a selective con sump t ion tax. The ra tes of tax are EL SALVADOR 5, 10, 20, 25, and 30 per cent. Goods of Central Ameri- can o r ig in are exempt. Payments for invisibles The commercial banks are authorized to sell fore ign exchange, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Central Reserve Bank, for medical and hosp i tal costs abroad, subscriptions to foreign literature, correspondence courses, and memberships in profess ional clubs and societies. They are also authorized to sell foreign exchange for travel for tou r i sm, business, or health reasons, as indicated below. The basic exchange a l loca t ion wh ich banks may make ava i lab le for travel ou ts ide the Cen tral Ame r ican area ( in te rp re ted to mean the Cen tral Ame r ican Common Market) for tourism, business, or health reasons is, free f rom deposit requirements, the equivalent of US$600 a person a t r ip, on the basis of US$60 a person a day for ten days (US$300 for ch i ldren under 16 on the basis of US$30 a d a y ). The Exchange Control Depa r tment may au tho r ize amoun ts in excess of US$600 a person a t r i p, up to an a d d i t i o n al US$1,200 ( amoun ts in excess of US$300 up to an a d d i t i o n al US$600 for c h i l d r en u n d er 16 ), prov ided that a gua ran tee deposit in local cu r r en cy co r respond ing to 20 per cent of the excess over the basic allocation is lodged w i th the Cen- t ral Reserve B a n k; the deposit is released upon the traveler's r e tu rn. The Exchange Control Department may also au tho r i z e, in spec ial cases, an add i t ional am o u nt up to US$1,800 a person a t r ip (US$900 for c h i l d r en u n d er 16) for t r ips exceed ing 30 days, aga inst p a ym e nt of a 30 per cent gua ran tee deposit; th is depos it also is released upon the trave ler's re tu rn .3 F u r t h er a d d i t i o n al am o u n ts can be made ava i lab le, on a case-by-case basis, if the traveler can provide the a u t h o r i t i es w i th ev idence of bona f ide cu r r ent expenses related to the purpose of the t rave l. The Exchange Con t rol D e p a r tm e nt may au tho r ize the sa le of fo r e ign exchange up to US$400 a m o n th (up to US$200 a m o n th for c h i l d r en u n d er 1 6 ), for f am i ly r em i t t a n c es to Sa lvado ran n a t i o n a ls abroad, and up to US$300 a mon th for s tudy abroad. Local banks are a u t h o r i z ed to sell exchange in a d d i t i on to the above quotas for s tudy purposes upon presentation of evidence of i n s t a l l a t i on expenses, t u i t i o n, and other expenses. For Sa lvadoran na t iona ls t r av e l ing to Central Ame r i- can coun t r i e s, the comme rc ial banks have been delegated a u t h o r i ty to prov ide exchange up to the same amoun ts in Costa R i c an co lones, H o n d u r an l emp i r a s, N i c a r agu an cordobas, or G u a t em a l an que tza les, or a cashier's check in Sa lvadoran colones ( f or payment through the Camara de Compen sac ion C e n t r o am e r i c a n a ). Requests for larger amoun ts must be subm i t ted for approval to the Central Reserve B a n k. I n t e r n a t i o n al sea and air passages are 3 E x c h a n ge in excess of US$600 for spec i f ic c l in ic or hospital expenses ab road may be exemp ted f r om the g u a r a n t ee deposit require- m e nt by the E x c h a n ge Con t rol D e p a r tm e n t. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Con trol Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance com­ panies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain from the Exchange Con trol Department authori­ zation to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be sur­ rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out C 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modifi­ cation, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Nonresident travelers may upon departure reconvert C 200 into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of all exports in excess of US$6 ,000 must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Con trol Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Con trol Department. W i th the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in C 200 in domestic notes and coins. This l im it is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Capital A ll exchange receipts resulting from capital trans­ actions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments by private individuals in Costa R i c a, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital w i th a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered w i th the M in is t ry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enter­ prises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and enterprises in the sphere of tourism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of 168 the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the M in is t ry of E conomy ); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing invest­ ments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) with respect to loans, interest and amortization as de­ termined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is required, in addition to the approval of the Exchange Con t rol Department, the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Economy. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the M in is t ry of Economy or the Exchange Con trol Department in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Con t rol Department authorizes, with­ out restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign currency for the payment of interest and amortization on short- term loans from abroad; foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the M in is t ry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks. Decree N o. 279 of M a r ch 27, 1969 sets certain m in i­ mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. F or purposes of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Central Amer ican Common Marke t. Gold G o ld coins in denominations of 0 25, C 50, C 100, and C 200 have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and other users. Changes during 1976 May 27. A reciprocal credit agreement with the Cen­ tral Bank of the Dom in ican Republic was approved. September 1. Settlements in Salvadoran colones with Mex ico under the Agreement on C lear ing and Recip­ rocal Credits between the Central Amer ican central banks and the Bank of Mex ico were suspended. They were not resumed during 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The c u r r e n cy of E q u a t o r i al G u i n ea is the E k u e l e, wh ich is issued by the People's B ank of the R e p u b l ic of Equ a to r i al G u i n ea ( t he c e n t r al b a n k) a nd is d e f i n ed as e q u i v a l e nt to 0.0126953 g r am of fine go ld. No par va lue or cen t ral ra te has been e s t ab l i sh ed for the ekue le. The cu r r en cy is at par w i th the Sp an i sh peseta, wh ich is E q u a t o r i al G u i n e a 's i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y. Rates for o ther cu r r en c i es are based on those in the Mad r id exchange m a r k e t. There a re no f o rw a rd exchange f a c i l i t i e s. Exchange taxes of 17.5 per c en t, 25 per cen t, and 35 per c ent are lev ied on c e r t a in t r an s f e rs abroad. Administration of Control The People's Bank is in cha rge of exchange c o n t r o l. Exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns m u st be ca r r ied out th rough the People's Bank or th rough a u t h o r i z ed comm e r c i al b a n k s; at presen t, the on ly a u t h o r i z ed b a nk is the N a t i o n al Deposit and Development Bank. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the D i r e c to r a t e -G en e r al of For- eign Comme rce in the M i n i s t ry of Comme rce; im p o rt licenses also r e q u i re the app roval of the P r e s id en t. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th Spain mu st be made th rough pay- men ts ag reement accounts denom ina ted in. U.S, do l lars, and p a ym e n ts to the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina through an account d enom in a t ed in Swiss f r a n c s. S e t t l em en ts with other coun t r ies a re made in c o n v e r t i b le cu r renc ie s. Imports and Import Payments A ll comme rc ial impo r ts r equ i re an im p o rt l icense. Licenses n o rm a l ly are issued w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of an annual import program. They do not entitle impor t- ers to the necessary fo re ign exchange u n t il they have been approved by the P re s iden t, a f t er wh i ch, in p r in c ip l e, exchange is a u t om a t i c a l ly made a v a i l a b le upon the arrival of the goods in Equ a to r i al G u i n e a; in practice, certain delays have a r i sen. A s ta te t r a d i ng o rg an i z a t ion, INFOGE, has a monopo ly over the impo r t a t ion of pha r- maceuticals, f lour, rice, suga r, sa l t, o l ive o i l, j u te bags, cement, and a ll gove rnment r equ i r em en t s. Ce r ta in imports f rom the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina are m ade by state enterprises on ly. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for cu r rent inv i s ib l es requ i re the p r ior approval of the People's B ank, wh ich for specified pu r- poses and up to specified amoun ts has de lega ted its approval- authority to the authorized commercial bank. At present, the approval of most p a ym e n ts and t r a n s f e rs for c u r r e nt i n t e r n a t i o n al t ran sac t ions by the pr iva te sector is suspended. Res iden ts T are in p r inc ip le gran ted f o r e i gn exchange up to the equ iv a l ent of EK 10,000 a person a c a l e n d ar year for tou r i st t r av el abroad. The s t a n d a rd a l lo c a t ion for bu s ine ss t ravel is the e q u i v a l e nt of EK 2,000 a person a d ay, sub ject to a m a x im um of EK 50,000 a t r i p. For s t u dy ab road, fo re ign exchange is in p r i n c i p le g r an t ed to cover t u i t i on and l i v i ng expenses; n o n r e s i d e n t i al s tud en ts a re a l lowed the equ iva- l e nt of EK 5,000 a mon th for l i v i ng expenses. In p r i n c i p l e, the t r a n s f er of wages and sa la r ies by a l ien r e s id en t s, and of p ro fe s s ional e a r n i n gs as well as d i v i- d ends by all res iden ts, is f ree ly pe rm i t ted up to 60 per cent of taxab le e a rn ings when the t r a n s f er is made to a c o u n t ry w i th wh ich a paymen ts ag reement is in force, and up to 40 per cent for o ther coun t r ies, prov ided that a n n u al e a r n i n gs do not exceed EK 50,000. Larger t r a n s f e rs a re p e rm i t t ed wh en a n n u al ea rn ings exceed EK 50,000. T r a n s f e rs ab road of p ro fess ional e a r n i n gs by n o n r e s i d e n ts a re in p r in c ip le f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed, but any am o u n ts in excess of 60 per cent of taxab le e a rn- i n gs are sub ject to a t r a n s f er tax of 35 per cent on the am o u nt t r a n s f e r r e d. There a re special a r r a n g em e n ts for the t r a n s f er of e a r n i n gs of N i g e r i an wo rke rs employed in E q u a t o r i al G u i n e a. In a d d i t i o n, non res iden ts as well as Equa to r ial G u i n e an n a t i o n a ls re s id ing tem- p o r a r i ly abroad a re pe rm i t ted in p r i n c i p le to w i t h d r aw up to EK 5,000 a mon th f r om th e ir sav ings accoun ts for r em i t t a n ce ab road. The t r a n s f er of net i n v e s tm e nt in com e, w h e t h er by r e s id en ts or non r e s id en t s, is sub ject to a tax of 35 per cent of the am o u nt t r a n s f e r r e d. Subject to th is r equ i r e- m e n t, t r a n s f e rs a re in p r i n c i p le f u l ly p e rm i t t e d. In the event of at least 50 per cent of such net i n v e s tm e nt i n c ome b e i ng re inves ted in approved pro jec ts in Equa- t o r i al G u i n e a, the tax is 17.5 per cent of the am o u nt rem i t ted. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trade- m a r k s, and roya l t ies a re in p r in c ip le pe rm i t ted f u l l y, sub ject to a tax of 25 per cent of the am o u nt rem i t ted. Trave lers may take out EK 3,000 a person in domes t ic bankno te s. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts requ i re an export l icense. Both specific and general expo rt l icenses are g ran ted; the la t ter are ava i lab le on ly to registered exporters. All export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the au tho r ized comme rc ial bank. The Chamber of Ag r icu l- tu r e, Commerce, and I n d u s t ry has a monopo ly over most ag r i cu l tu r al exports. 1 R e s id en ts a re d e f in ed as persons r em a i n i ng in Equ a to r i al G u i n ea for more t h an s ix mon ths in a c a l end ar year or for more t h an s ix m o n t hs in two con secu t ive c a l end ar yea r s. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the People's Bank or the authorized com- mercial bank. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval, and the latter are not normally permitted. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The t rans fer abroad of funds f rom the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is in principle permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval by the Government. Residents, as well as nonresidents l iv ing in Equatorial Gu inea, are pro- hibited f rom engaging in borrowing or lending with nonresidents. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the People's Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins in denomina- tions of Equatorial Gu inean pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000 are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on January 8, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Birr, corresponding to Br 2.50000 = SDR 1, and Ethiopia avails itself of w ider ma rg ins. The in te rven- tion currency is the U.S. do l la r. The N a t i o n al Bank of Ethiopia ( the cen tral b a n k) does not deal w i th the pub- lic; its dealings in U.S. dollars w i th the au thor ized banks take place at the o f f ic ial rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Authorized banks in dea l ing w i th the public must observe this off ic ial rate for the U.S. do l lar and prescribed com- mission charges of 0.50 per cent buy ing and 1.50 per cent selling; the resu l t ing e f fec t ive buy ing and se l l ing rates are Br 2.05965 and Br 2.10105 per US$1, and are applied also in the Na t ional Bank's dealings w i th the Government and certain public sector entities. Spot exchange rates for other cu r renc ies are based on the N a t ion al Bank's o f f ic ial ra te for the U.S. d o l l ar and the previous day's c los ing rates aga inst the U.S. d o l l ar in European exchange marke ts. Au thor ized banks requ i re the approval of the N a t ion al Bank to und e r t ake fo rw a rd exchange transac t ions. Administration of Control A ll t r an s a c t ions in fo r e ign exchange m u st be c a r r i ed out th rough au tho r i z ed b a n ks and a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs under the con trol of the N a t i o n al B a n k. A ll p a ym e n ts abroad requ i re licenses issued by the Exchange Con- troller, whose office is a d iv is ion of the N a t i o n al B a n k; all exports are licensed by the Exchange Con t ro l ler to ensure the surrender of the fo r e ign e x c h a n ge proceeds. The M in i s t er of Comme rce and Tou r ism has s t a t u t o ry a u t h o r i ty to p r o h i b i t, r e s t r i c t, or r e g u l a te im p o r ts and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing paymen ts a re n o rm a l ly made in conv e r t ib le foreign exchange app rop r ia te to the c o u n t ry of the recipient or in U.S. do l lars. The net proceeds of expor ts must be received in a f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy th at is f r e e ly conve r t ib le, or in any o ther f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy accep tab le to the Exchange C o n t r o l l e r. Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts may, sub ject to exchange con t rol approval, open non res ident accoun ts e i ther in E t h i o p i an b irr or in fore ign currenc ies at au thor ized bank s. Ba l- ances in non re s ident accoun ts may be f r e e ly t r a n s f e r r ed abroad. T r a n s f e rs be tween n o n r e s i d e nt a c coun ts do not requ ire p r ior app rova l, but the o p e n i ng of t r a n s f e r a b le b irr accoun ts and fo re ign cu r r en cy accoun ts at the same t ime is not perm i t ted. Imports and Import Payments A ll impor ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro- hibited. With m i n or excep t ion s, impo r ts of passenger au tomob i les w i th an eng ine capac i ty of over 1,300 cub ic centimeters are prohibited. No impo rt l icenses are requ i red. However, paymen ts abroad for impo r ts r equ i re exchange licenses; these licenses are gene ra l ly granted f ree ly in the cu r r en cy app rop r i a te to the c o u n t ry of o r i g i n, or in any conve r t ib le c u r r e n cy th at may be reques ted. P a ym e nt is n o rm a l ly au tho r i z ed by le t ter of c red i t, m a il t ran s fe r, te leg raph ic t r an s f e r, or cash ag a in st documen ts at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods wh ich were p rev ious ly subject to advance deposit r e q u i r em e n ts ( a b o ut 100 i tem s, mo s t ly con s um er goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts for inv i s ib l es r e q u i re exchange licenses. I n v i s i b l es connec ted w i th t rade t r an s a c t ions a re treated on the same basis as the goods to w h i ch they relate. Fore ign employees may rem it mon th ly up to 30 per cent of the ir net ea rn ings and may rem it a m a x i m um r a n g i ng be tween 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net e a rn ings d u r i ng the te rm of service and u p on f inal d e p a r t u r e. Fo re ign n a t i o n a ls who a re not en t i t led to r em it m o n t h ly 30 per cent of t h e ir net e a r n i n gs may r em it up to 30 per cent of t h e ir net e a rn ings for the educa t ion of t h e ir ch i l- d ren. Res iden ts may rem it p r em i ums on i n s u r a n ce po l i- cies taken out before A p r il 1962. Subject to ce r ta in l im i ts and to subm i s s ion of ev idence, persons may ob t a in f o r e i gn exchange for med ical t r e a tm e nt and t ravel ab road. Subject to proper p rov i s ion h a v i ng been made for local t a x a t i on and to the presentation of the necessary documen t s, fo re ign compan ies may in p r i n c i p le r em it d i v i d e n ds on t h e ir invested and reinvested cap i tal in any c u r r e n c y. Pe rsons t r a v e l i ng ab road a re in p r i n c i p le a l lowed f o r- e i gn e x c h a n ge e q u i v a l e nt to Br 125 a day for a m a x i m um pe r iod of 30 days in any one c a l e n d ar y e ar if the j o u r n ey is made for bus iness purposes, and up to the e q u i v a l e nt of Br 600 a year for persons 1 8 years of age or over if the j o u r n ey is made for p l e a su r e. Travelers may take w i th th em a m a x i m um of Br 50 in E t h i o p i an b a n k n o t e s. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expo r ts to Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca a re pro- h i b i t e d. Expo r ts of most cerea ls to any d e s t in a t ion o ther t h an the F rench T e r r i to ry of the A f a rs and the Tssas also a re p roh ib i ted. A ll commod i t ies r equ i re export pe rm i ts f r om the Exchange Con t ro l ler and some requ ire in addi- t ion the app roval of spec if ied pub l ic bodies. When apply- ing for a p e rm i t, an expo r ter mu st spec i fy the goods to be e x p o r t e d, the d e s t i n a t i o n, and the v a l u e. The g r a n t i ng of the p e rm it by the Exchange Con t ro l ler enab les the goods to pass th rough customs. The l i c en s ing system is used to ensu re that fo r e ign exchange receipts are sur- rendered to the N a t ion al Bank, gene ra l ly w i th in three mon th s, and that export proceeds are received in an 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a max imum of Br 50 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is sub- ject to authorization, except in the case of temporary visitors. Reconversion of Ethiopian b irr must be sup- ported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict undesirable outflows, to preclude an unwa r ran ted accumulation of external debt, and to keep the authori- ties informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inf lows w i th the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for any later repatriation. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. Foreign capital may participate with the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the explor- ation for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. Transfers by emigrants who are leaving on termination of their employment contracts with the Government or with private organizations are limited to 40-50 per cent of the applicant's total net income, depending on marital status and on whether the appli- cant has free accommodation or not. Transfers by emigrants who had operated the ir own business are restricted to Br 40,000 in any one calendar year. Bo r row ing abroad requ ires exchange control approval and is restricted. No rm a l ly, evidence must be presented that all possibilities for domestic borrow ing have been exhausted. Au thor ized banks may f ree ly place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. They need the prior approval of the N a t i o n al Bank to overdraw the ir accounts w i th fore ign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in fo re ign currency. Gold The ownersh ip of personal jewe l ry and articles of ado rnment of which gold or p l a t i n um fo rms a part is perm i t ted. Unless spec if ica l ly au thor ized by the M in is ter of M ines, Energy, and Wa ter Resources, the possession or custody, in a qu an t i ty in excess of 50 ounces, of raw or ref ined gold or p l a t inum or of gold or p l a t inum in the fo rm of nuggets, ores, or bu l l ion constitutes an offense. Cer ta in new ly m ined gold is sold by the Trea- su ry to the Na t ional Bank. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry requ ire exchange licenses issued by the Na t ional Bank. Such licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies. Changes during 1976 April 16. The issue of licenses to export livestock was restricted to the Ethiopian Distribution Company and four other specialized firms. September 27. The name of the cu r rency was changed f rom Ethiopian dollar to birr. No appreciation or depre- c ia t ion of the currency was involved. The f o l l ow i ng changes took place ear ly in 1977: January 5. The N a t ion al Bank issued new fore ign exchange regu la t ions (N o t i ce No. 1 / 1 9 7 7 ). 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value for the F i ji Do l l ar has been established with the Fund. On February 25, 1974 a central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1 was established, and F i ji availed itself of wider margins. Since A p r il 7, 1975, however, exchange rates have been determined daily on the basis of a weighted average of the currencies of F i j i's major trading partners. The Central Monetary Au thor i ty of F i ji provides official quotations only for the U . S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. F or telegraphic transfers, the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were F$0.9341 and F$0 .9491, respectively, per U S $ 1. F i ji formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, acting as agent of the Government. The Monetary Au thor i ty delegates to authorized dealers (only banks are authorized dealers in F i j i) the authority to approve normal import payments. Except with the specific permission of the Monetary Au thor i ty, residents of F i ji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer a ll foreign currencies they receive.1 The M in is t ry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, which are issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th a ll countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th residents of any country may be made in F i ji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. The prescribed manner of payment for exports to any destination outside F i ji is payment in F i ji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. A ll payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident 2 may maintain an External Account in F i ji currency or a foreign currency account w i th an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty. 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the F i ji dollar. A ll foreign currencies are re­ garded as specified currencies and hence must normally be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country outside F i j i. As regards individ­ uals, a resident of F i ji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in F i ji for a period of at least three years. These accounts may be credited freely w i th interest payable on the account, payments from other Ex ternal Accounts, the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and F i ji currency notes which the account holder brought into F i ji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit; in addition, External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents for wh ich either a general or specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of F i j i, trans­ fers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in F i j i, and purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when originating in countries other than Rhodesia. However, import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from a ll sources, mainly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific licenses, including passenger automobiles, seed potatoes, flour, tea, sharps, m i ld steel bars and rods, and steel welded mesh, and licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Au thor ized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Au thor ized banks may authorize advance payments for a ll imports pro­ vided the goods are imported into F i ji within 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondele- gated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. Payments may be made freely for a ll bona fide current transactions. Residents of F i ji when traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, a foreign currency travel allowance for p r i­ vate or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2 ,000 a person a journey. F or extended visits, a traveler may apply to the Monetary Au tho r i ty while overseas, through his bank, for funds in excess of F$2 ,000 a person a tr ip. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take w i th h im, on his person or in his luggage, F$50 in F i ji currency and the equivalent of F$200 in other curren­ cies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI travel allowances approved by a bank and /or the Mone- tary Authority. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are obliged to collect the proceeds of exports w i th in six months of the date of exportation of the goods f rom Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months w i thout specific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, meal of copra, certain lumber, scrap metals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to autho- rized dealers, irrespective of the currency concerned. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other fo rmer Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area currencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of former Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer w i th in one mon th of re turn. Capital The inflow of capital is unrestricted but must be registered with the Central Monetary Authority, unless the recipient is an authorized dealer. Foreign invest- ment in F i ji normally is expected to be financed f rom a nonresident source. Such fore ign inves tment may be given "approved status," which guaran tees the right to repa tr ia te dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital t rans fe rs by resi- dents to finance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty and are normally permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. All authorized banks operating in Fiji are required to ob ta in pr ior authorization f rom the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty for transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising f r om (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji cur- rency whether for credit to a resident account or for an External Account and (2) the cred i t ing of an External Account with Fiji currency emana t ing f rom another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks ). Banks also require the approval of the Central Monetary Au thor i ty before any loans are granted to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by individ- uals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$ 1,000 —for any 174 period and any purpose —to individual nonresident cus- tomers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and nonbank residents require permission f rom the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency f rom anyone other than an authorized bank in Fiji or f rom any source outside F i j i. The t ran s fer of inheritances and dowries which are due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the t rans fer of the sales proceeds of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of F i ji are also allowed to make cash g i f ts equivalent to F$500 a donor a year to nonresi- dents; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a max imum of F$ 1,000 a person a year to acquire fore ign currency securities with the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority. The purchase of per- sonal real property outside Fiji is not perm i t ted. Port- fo l io inves tment in F i ji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Mone ta ry Authority if payment is made f rom a nonresident source; the proceeds of the sale or rea l iza t ion of such investment qua l i fy for repa tr ia t ion. Banks require exchange control permission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits f rom nonresidents. The net fore ign liabilities of banks ( that is, the positive difference between balances due to banks abroad and balances due f r om banks abroad) are subject to a cash reserve requ irement of 5 per cent. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins but not gold bullion in F i j i. The export of gold coins, except numis- ma t ic coins and collector's pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Mone ta ry Au thor i ty. Gold imports f rom all sources require a specific import license issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are f ree of customs du ty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt f rom customs du ty but is subject to a fiscal tax of ll/2 per cent. Gold jewe lry is subject to a fiscal du ty of 10 per cent but does not requ ire any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign m anu f a c tu r e rs requ ire import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewe lry do not require licenses and are f ree of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Au s t ra l ia at f ree ma rket prices. Gold exports are subject to a 2 per cent export du ty. A commemo ra t ive gold coin of F$100 has been issued. It is legal tender but does not norma l ly circulate. Changes during 1976 January 2. Exchange Control Ordinance (EC No t ice 25) rega rd ing the surve i l lance of inflows of f u n ds to F i ji came in to e f fec t. All authorized banks ope ra t ing in F i ji were required to obtain prior author!- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI zation f rom the Central Monetary Authority before effecting the following transactions invo lv ing F$50,000 or more: ( 1) converting fore ign currency in to Fiji cur- rency whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and ( 2) cred i t ing an Ex te rnal Account with Fiji cu r rency emana t ing f rom another Ex ternal Account in F i ji ( in c lud ing Fiji cu r rency accounts of overseas bank s ). June 2. A revised Exchange Control Notice was issued to banks delegating the au thor i ty to issue advance payments in respect of imports in to F i ji provided the goods are imported within 90 days of payment being made. August 6. Certain m inor items, such as incense sticks, were added to the list of prohibited imports wh ich require special licenses gran ted by the M in i s t ry of Com- merce, Indus try, and Cooperatives. September 1. F i j ian residents who intend to leave Fiji to settle abroad could send F$30,000 12 months prior to their departure f rom Fiji to the country of fu tu re resi- dence to buy a house. September 17. Radar detecting devices were added to the list of prohibited impor ts requ i r ing special license f rom the telecommunications authority. November 16. Delegated authority granted to banks to issue travel funds was increased to F$2,000 from F$600 a person a trip. November 16. Delegated authority granted to banks to issue iunds ior education^ puiposts tot Fi\\arv resi- dents studying abroad was w i thdrawn. November 29. Following the depreciation of the cur- rencies of Aus tra l ia and New Zealand, the rate of exchange for the Fiji dollar was adjusted f rom F$l = US$1.0889 to F$l = US$1.0276. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Finnish Markka. A cen tral rate of Fmk 3.90 = US$1 has been established, and Finland avails itself of wider marg ins. However, on June 4, 1973 the Bank of F in land ceased to observe the lower exchange rate ma rg in, and the upper ma rg in was suspended on J a n u a ry 8, 1974. The Bank of Finland's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 3 1, 1976, were Fmk 3.758 and Fmk 3.776 per US$1. The rates for the U.S. do l lar are applicable also to c lea r ing dollars. Buy ing and selling rates for the c lea r ing rub le are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on ma rket cross rates. The Bank of F in land quotes da i ly fo rw a rd rates for the U.S. dollar and the c lea r ing rub le at wh ich au thor- ized banks may cover their contracts w i th resident cus- tomers re la t ing to any type of t ran sac t ion pe rm i t ted by the exchange control regu la t ions; otherwise, f o rw a rd p rem iums and d iscoun ts reflect in t e rn a t ion al fo rwa rd quotations. Authorized banks may deal among them- selves, w i th resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U.S. do l lars and other convertible or ex te rna l ly convertible currencies. The Bank of F in land concludes fo rwa rd t ransac t ions for periods r a n g i ng f rom 3 to 12 months. Administration of Control The Bank of F in land operates the exchange con trol system, de lega t ing au tho r i ty to the au tho r ized exchange dealers (m a i n ly commerc ial b a n k s ). Impo rt and export l icens ing is administered by an office subordinate to the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus try, the L icens ing Off ice, which is headed by a L icens ing Board composed of gove rnment off ic ia ls, inc lud ing a represen ta t ive of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, coun tr ies are d iv ided in to two groups: the bilateral coun tr ies l and the convertible currency countries (a ll o the r s ). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (rubles for the U.S.S.R. and Rom an i a, F inn i sh m a rkk aa for the People's Repub- lic of Ch ina, and U.S. dollars in all other cases). Settle- men ts w i th the convertible cu r rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. 1 At the end of 1976 F in land had b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag r e em en ts w i th Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Demo- c ra t ic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, Po l and, R om a n i a, and U .S .S .R. Howeve r, se t t lemen ts with Czechoslovakia and Poland have been e f fec ted on a f u l ly conv e r t ib le basis s ince 1970. 176 Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of non res ident accounts: Conver t ib le Accoun ts, Res tr ic ted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonres iden ts in F inn i sh m a r k k aa or in conve r t ib le cu r renc ies. These accoun ts may be credited by an au thor ized bank w i th amoun ts t rans fe r red f rom other Convertible Accounts, F inn ish currency received direct f rom a foreign bank or impo r ted in to F in l and, amoun ts wh ich the bank wou ld be au tho r ized to t r a n s f er ab road, amoun ts of conver t ib le cu r rency received by the b ank, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited f ree ly and ba lances may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad f r e e ly to any coun t ry. Restricted Accounts are held by res iden ts of coun tr ies w i th which F in land has b i la teral paymen ts arrange- men ts, are designated according to the holder's country of res idence, and may be held in F inn ish m a r k k aa or the app rop r i a te b i la te ral ag reement cu r rency. They may be credited by an au thor ized bank w i th amoun ts w i th which the bank may credit a Convertible Account, am o u n ts t r an s f e r r ed f rom Res t r ic ted Accoun ts related to the same coun t ry, F inn ish cu r rency received f r om a bank in the coun t ry ind ica ted on the accoun t, amounts wh ich the bank is au thor ized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the account, currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the coun t ry ind ica ted on the account, and interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accoun ts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred freely to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonres ident accounts. The ass ignment of a Cap i tal Account to another nonres ident and the t r an s f er abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected only with the perm iss ion of the Bank of F in l and. A mone tary institu- t ion may credit a Cap i tal Account w i th the purchase price of assets other than fore ign securities bought f rom the holder by a resident, f u n ds received as an inheritance or on the basis of a w i l l, redemption payments and in terest on m a tu r ed bonds and debentures quoted on the He l s inki Stock Exchange, rent on property owned in F in l and by the holder of the accoun t, proceeds f rom other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary ins t i tu t ion w i th which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a con- tract g r a n t i ng to a nonres ident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value and to be utilized in F in land, and interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial cu r rent expenses in F in land of and for account of the account holder, and f u n ds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments for account of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution account holder when the transac t ion does not require au tho r iza t ion or is au thor ized for t r a n s f e r a b le f u n d s. The Bank of F in land a u t om a t i c a l ly g r a n ts pe rm i s s ion for t r an s f e rs abroad of f u n ds deposited in Cap i tal Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad du r ing the last ca lendar year and who con t inues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the mu l t i l a t e r al area or l icense - f ree area ( i .e ., nea r ly a ll coun t r i es w i th wh ich F i n l a nd does not have b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts agree- men t s ) ,2 provided that the goods are purchased f rom and originate in that area. Specified consumer durables, however, are t em p o r a r i ly sub ject to su rv e i l l an ce l icens- ing, i r respec t ive of o r ig in. C e r t a in o ther goods may be impor ted f rom the mu l t i la te ral area under a global quota system, wh ich provides for impo rt licenses to be issued at least up to the amoun ts of 11 v a lue quo tas for specified commod i ty groups. The to tal v a l ue of the global quo tas for 1976 was less t h an 1 per cent of to tal 1976 imports. Ano ther group of goods also requ ires an individual license when impo r ted f rom the mu l t i l a t e r al area; these are set out in the d i s c r e t ion a ry l i c en s ing l i s t, which comprises on ly ag r i cu l tu r al commod i t ies, coal, coke, and pe tro leum products. Thus, the on ly com- modities still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction for the mu l t i la te ral area a re ag r i cu l tu r al commod i t ies, fu e l s, and unw rought gold and silver; the con sum er d u r a b le goods mentioned above are licensed f ree ly. Import licenses are not requ ired for most commodities o r ig ina t ing in and sh ipped f r om the U.S.S.R., or or ig i- na t ing in and shipped f r om the f o ur c o u n t r i es w i th which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Repub l ic, and Hung a ry ). Qu an- titative res t r ic t ions on impo r ts f r om the U.S.S.R. and these four coun tr ies have been reduced to the levels applicable to goods o r ig ina t ing in the mu l t i la te ral area. In add i t ion, m any commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in and shipped f r om the other b i la te ral coun t r ies are f ree of license. Imports under license f rom the bilateral coun- tries are adm i t ted up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreemen t. All impo r ts of commod i t ies o r ig ina t ing in coun tr ies c lass if ied ne i ther in the m u l t i- lateral area nor in the bilateral area require ind iv idual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for h um an con sump t ion, but i n d i v i d u al impo r te rs may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted impor ts on p resen ta t ion of an app l ica t ion f o rm, the import license if required, and the original commer- cial invoice, provided that the goods are a lready in the country or there is su f f ic ient evidence to gua ran tee the ir aThe exceptions are Repub l ic of Ch ina, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. FINLAND impor ta t ion. Payment for imports must be made within 12 months af ter the arrival of goods in the country; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the cred it is sub ject to an "overtime fee," unless specially authorized by the Bank of F in land; if the payment is made to the seller by using an import f inanc ing credit, the credit period may not exceed 6 months. Under a tempo ra ry "cash payment scheme," however, payment for specified consumer goods and for passenger auto- mobiles must be made, or the markka equivalent of the purchase price deposited w i th the Bank of Finland, be fo re the goods are released by the customs au thor i t ies. Payments for Invisibles W i th few exceptions ( re la t ing to t r an spo rt and insu r- a n c e ), res iden ts a re pe rm i t ted to conclude t ransac t ions invo lv ing cu r rent invisibles w i th nonresidents. Paymen ts in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The au tho r ized banks have general permission to effect pay- men ts for most cu r r ent inv is ib les, sub ject in some cases to a m ax imum allowance or other cond i t ions; for amoun ts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for wh ich no s tanda rd allowances have been set, exchange licenses are g ran ted f r e e ly by the Bank of F in land. All contracts invo lv ing paymen ts to non re s i- dents for wh ich general permission has not been granted mu st be subm i t t ed to the B ank of F in land for approval. For m i n or p aym en t s, au thor ized banks may g rant fo r- eign exchange equ iva lent to Fmk 300 a ca lendar mon th for each remitter. A Finnish res ident go ing abroad may purchase f rom comm e r c i al banks fo r e ign exchange equ iva lent to Fmk 3,000 a t r ip. A F inn i sh t rave ler abroad may also w i thdraw fore ign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a F inn ish mone tary ins t i tu t ion, pro- v ided that the u t i l ized am o u nt of h is t ravel a l loca t ion does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. A res ident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and make the payment af ter re turn. Nonresident travel- ers may take out Fmk 3,000 a t r ip in F inn ish notes and coins and any am o u nt in fo re ign notes and co ins declared upon en t ry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any comb ina t ion of these, up to Fmk 3,000. For all types of trave l, bona fide applica- t ions for add i t ional amoun ts of fo re ign exchange are approved by the Bank of F in land. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of other goods require only an export control d e c l a r a t ion, which is approved au toma t ica l ly by the L icen s ing Office except in a few specified cases. Exports to countries that are not in the mu l t i l a t e r al area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of b i la te ral t rade a r rangemen t s. Foreign exchange acqu ired through commodity exports need not be surrendered 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND to the Bank of F in land or an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate their fore ign exchange proceeds w i th in eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or converted into domes- tic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invisi- bles do not have to be surrendered but must be repa- triated w i th in eight days of collection. The exchange may be held in a foreign currency account in F in land. Any unu t i l ized fo re ign bankno tes and travelers checks mu st be repa t r ia ted, but these are exempt f r om the su r- render requ i rement up to Fmk 3,000 for each res ident holder. The import of F inn i sh and fo re ign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most ou tward t ran s fe rs of non re s ident cap i tal are subject to approval by the Bank of F in l and. Inh e r i t an c es are t r an s f e r r ed au tom a t i c a l ly to the bene f ic ia r ies. Per- sons who d u r i ng the last calendar year have resided out- side Finland and con t inue to do so may t r an s f er abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the pr ior approval of the Bank of F in land, which generally is gran ted. Non re s iden ts may purchase th rough an au tho r ized b ank, aga inst convertible currencies, or by deb i t ing a Convertible Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonres ident are deposited in the custody of the au thor ized bank, the non re s ident purchaser is per- m i t ted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the au thor ized bank and to r ep a t r i a te the pro- ceeds of the sale in a conver t ib le cu r rency. The acqu is i- tion w i th funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange is also permitted au toma t ica l ly, but proceeds f rom the sale of such securities may not be t r an s f e r r ed abroad w i th- out the perm iss ion of the Bank of F in l and. Any other t r an s a c t ions in, and the export of, secur i t ies invo lv ing nonresident in teres ts require app rova l. If the securities were acquired w i th convertible foreign exchange or w i th ma rkkaa f rom a Convertible Account, approval for the ir export can be obtained f ree ly. The regu la t ions con c e rn ing i nw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e nt are as fo l lows: A ll incom ing cap i tal t r an s a c t ions must be approved by the Bank of F in land, wh ich cons iders the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission liberally, unless the investment is judged to be excep- tionally de tr imen tal to the na t ional interest or to be of a pure ly financial charac ter. Repa t r ia t ion of au tho r ized direct inves tmen ts is f ree. Foreign inv e s tm en ts th at involve a pa r t ic ipa t ion of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usua l ly granted liber- ally. Direct fore ign investment in the forest and m in ing 178 industries and in certain trad i t iona l ly regulated activities is not no rma l ly permitted. On demand of the Bank of F in land, residents must declare their foreign assets, inc lud ing property owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Outward t rans fe rs of capital by residents require ind iv idual approva l; inves tment by residents in fo re ign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. Authorized banks, however, are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. For direct investment abroad, approval is gran ted on the merits of each case. F inn ish em ig ran ts are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in add i t ion to the basic tour ist t ravel a l lowance. There is an au toma t ic exchange allowance of Fmk 1,000 a calendar month for each donor for gifts and con tr ibu t ions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the fo rm of short-term or med ium - te rm financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requ ires the specific approval of the Bank of F i n l a n d, wh ich exercises su rve i l lance over the te rms and t im ing. Lend ing to non res iden ts is no rma l ly restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or impo rt credits, is subject to a selective deposit r equ i r em en t, the te rms of wh ich are set ad hoc by the Bank of F in land. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any f o rm w i t h in F in land. Impor ts of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry requ i re licenses issued by the Licensing Off ice; such licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted except for impo r ts by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for indus t r ial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regula- t ions as exports of other commod i t ies, i.e., an export con t rol dec la ra t ion approved by the L icens ing Office is u su a l ly su f f i c i en t. Changes during 1976 January 1. Import duties on most indus tr ial goods of EEC or ig in were fu r th er reduced in accordance with the f ree t r ade ag reement w i th the EEC. February 15. The impo rt depos it r equ i r em ent was abo l ished for goods a t t r a c t i ng a 5 per cent ra te of deposit. March 1. Importers were permitted to accept sup- pliers' credits exceeding 6 mon ths but not 12 months, but such cred i ts were made sub ject to an "overtime fee" am o u n t i ng to 10 per cent of the o u t s t a n d i ng va lue of the cred it for the seven th mon th and an a d d i t i o n al 5 per cent for each of the fo l low ing 4 mon ths. Impo r te rs who were previously permitted to accept credit terms exceed- ing 6 months were exempted f rom the fee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND March 15. A schedule was announced for the gradual te rm ina t ion of the import deposit requ iremen t, which would be fu l ly term ina ted by the end of 1976. March 16. The import deposit rate for goods a t trac t- ing a rate of 20 per cent was reduced to 10 per cent. April 14. Imported unroasted coffee was made exempt from import duty until July 31. July 1. The import deposit requ i rement was abolished for goods a t trac t ing a 10 per cent rate of deposit and for goods that prior to March 16 had attracted a 20 per cent rate of deposit. July 22. The exemption from import d u ty of un roa s ted coffee was extended un t il Janua ry 31, 1977. September 1. Importers who are registered whole- salers were required to pay tu rnover tax at the point of customs clearance rather than at the point of sale as had been the previous practice. September 15. Ten countries were added to the list of beneficiaries of F in land's Generalized System of Preferences scheme. September 29. An agreement on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade between Finland and Poland was signed. October 1. The import deposit rate for goods attract- ing a rate of 30 per cent was reduced to 20 per cent. It was fu r th er reduced to 10 per cent on November 16 and f u l ly abolished on December 31. December 27. A surcharge, to be enforced for six months, was imposed on all imports of women's pan ty hose whose price exceeded a set basic price. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc, and France avails itself of wider marg ins. No announced m a rg ins a re m a i n t a i n ed for fo re ign c u r r e n- cies.1 On December 30, 1976 the rep re sen ta t ive ra te for the U.S. dollar was F 4.96975 = US$1. Fixed convers ion rates in te rms of French f r a n cs app ly to the cu r renc ies of the f o l l ow i ng coun t r ies and te r r i- tories: the Operations Account countries,2 the French Overseas Territories (except the Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas ), the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides, and the Comoros. These conve rs ion ra tes have been ma in ta ined at pre-August 15, 1971 levels. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, wh ich may also act on behalf of banks es tab l ished ab road or in Opera t ions Account coun t r ie s, are pe rm i t ted to deal spot or forward in the exchange ma rket in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and fo rwa rd w i th th e ir co r responden ts in fo re ign ma rke ts in a ll currenc ies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports and of certain me rchan t ing t rans- actions, but the ir fo rwa rd sales of fo re ign cu r rency are f ree, whe ther there is an u n d e r l y i ng t ran sac t ion or no t. On the impo rt side, forward cover is ava i lab le for some commodities for 6 or 12 mon ths, and for all others for 2 mon ths. France fo rma l ly accepted the Ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regu la t ions are app l icab le in all te r r i to r ies of the French Repub l ic except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Depa r tmen ts (Guade- loupe, M a r t i n i q u e, G u i a n a, R e u n i o n, and S t. Pierre et M ique lon ), Mayotte, and three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Po lynes ia ). No exchange con trol is applied in re la t ion to the P r inc ipa l i ty of Monaco or the Opera t ions A c count countries, in c lud ing the Comoros; - paymen ts between France and these countries are f ree of restriction on the French side and take place at fixed exchange rates. All o ther countries are considered foreign countries for 1 The currenc ies that are officially quo ted are Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, D j i b o u ti f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i re, Mex ican pesos, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, Po r tugu e se escudos, pounds s t e r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k ron e r, Swiss f r an c s, U.S. do l lars, and za i re s. - Coun tr ies whose i n s t i t u te of issue ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th t he F rench T r e a s u r y: B e n i n, Came roon, C en t r al A f r i c an Emp i r e, Ch ad, People's R epub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Mali, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 180 exchange control pu rposes ;8 all payments between France and fo re ign coun t r ies are subject to exchange con t ro l. The C o n d om i n i um of the New Hebr ides is considered a foreign coun t ry for exchange con trol pur- poses. For impo r ts and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered fore ign countries. Ce r ta in con tro ls that are ind ep end ent of the exchange con t rol regu la t ions a re m a i n t a i n ed over inw a rd and out- ward d irect inv e s tm ent and over bo r row ing abroad; these transac t ion controls are not applicable to the Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies or Monaco, and those over d irect i n v e s tm e nt do not app ly to member countries of the EEC. Pr iv i leged t r e a tm e nt in respect of t rade t ransac t ions is accorded to the Operations Account coun- tr ies and to Algeria, Cambod ia, Gu inea, the Lao Peo- ple's Democra t ic Repub l ic, Madagascar, Maur i tan ia, Tun is ia, Viet N am, and the Condom in ium of the New Hebr ides .4 Administration of Control The D irec tora te of the T reasu ry of the M in i s t ry of Economy and F in an ce is the c o o r d i n a t i ng agency in the field of financial re la t ions w i th fore ign countries. It is in charge of exchange con trol and of all ma t ters re la t ing to i nw a rd and ou twa rd d irect i n v e s tm e nt and to borrow- ing abroad, unless these ma t ters relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applica- t ions and no t i f ica t ion s. The D i rec to ra te of the Treasury also eva lua tes the ba lance of paymen ts, together w i th the Bank of France, which collects the da ta for its comp i la t ion. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, inc lud ing the a u t h o r i ty to license impo r ts and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the M in is try of Economy and Finance has ce r ta in powers in respect of * Present French leg is la t ion no longer makes re fe rence to the French F ranc A rea concept. From an exchange con trol po int of v iew, th is A rea ceased to exist w i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 31, 1967. In the context of coun tr ies' overall relations w i th France, however, the concept su rv iv e s. In th is sense the French F ranc A rea consists of France and the fo l low ing coun t r ie s: (1) the c o u n t r i es of the West A f r i c an M o n e t a ry Un ion (B e n i n, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ); (2) the coun tr ies of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Cen tral A f r i c an Emp ire, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, and G abon) and Chad; (3) th ree No r th A f r i c an coun t r i es (A lge r ia, Morocco, and T u n i s i a ); (4) two fo rmer Operations Account countries (Madagascar and M au r i t an i a ); and (5) two other countries (Comoros and M a l i ). This broad d e f in i t ion is fo l lowed, in ter alia, in comp i l ing the balance of p aym en t s. In the con text of France's m o n e t a ry re la t ions, the concept of French F ranc Area is n a r row e r, exc lud ing the countries of groups (3) and (4 ). 4 These c o u n t r i es and t e r r i t o r i es are l i s ted in A r t ic le 86 of an Order of J a n u a ry 30, 1967 of the D i rec to ra te -Gene ral of Customs and Ind i rect Taxes (as amended on F e b r u a ry 6 and May 31, 1967). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ma t ters re la t ing to in su r an c e, r e in su r an c e, annu i t i e s, etc. The m a t e r i al execu t ion of all t r an s f e rs has been dele- gated to a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks and s tockb roke rs and p a r t ly to the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. The D irec tora te-General of Cus toms and Ind i rect Taxes establishes impo rt and export p rocedu res a nd c o n t r o l s, w i t h in t he f r am e w o rk of comme rc ial policy d i rec t ives g iven by the D irec tora te of Foreign Econom ic R e l a t i o ns ( D R E E ); the Direc- tora te-General a lso issues impo rt and export licenses, is responsible for any legal prob lems a r i s ing f rom the exchange r e g u l a t i o n s, a nd in p a r t i c u l ar h a n d l es a ny l i t i- gation r e l a t ing there to. Technical visas requ i red for certain impo r ts and exports are issued by the compe tent m in is t ry or by the D i rec to ra te -Gene ral of Cus toms and Indirect Taxes. The M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t r i al and Sc ien t i f ic Deve lopment has c e r t a in r e spon s ib i l i t i es in respect of licensing con trac ts and con trac ts r e l a t i ng to t e chn i c al assistance. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th Ope ra t ions A c count c o u n t r i es m ay be made in French f r an cs or the cu r rency issued by any institute of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account with the French Treasury .5 Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll o ther coun t r ies may be made in any of the cu r renc ies of those coun t r ies or th rough non r e s id ent Fore ign Accoun ts in Francs. Se t t lemen ts w i th A lg e r i a, Morocco, and T u n i s i a, however, u s u a l ly t ake place in French f rancs. Importers and exporters are free to invo ice in any cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts A non re s ident a c count in f r an cs may be f ree ly opened by an au thor ized bank for non res iden ts, i n c l u d i ng French n a t i o n a ls (o ther t h an French o f f i c i a l s) who have been res id ing abroad for at least two years. All over- drafts and advances on nonresident-held f r a nc accounts are subject to gene ral or specific p e rm i s s ion. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be f r e e ly credited with ( 1) the f r a nc proceeds of the spot or fo rwa rd sale of fo re ign cu r renc ies on the exchange m a r k et by a non- resident; (2) the f r a nc proceeds of the sale of fore ign bankno tes to an au thor ized b ank by a non res ident bank or traveler; ( 3) the f r a nc equ iva lent of an au tho r ized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign ma r- ket; (4) French b ankno t es ( and those of the Ope ra t ions Account countries) mailed direct f rom abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an au tho r ized bank's fo re ign corresponden ts; (5) t r a n s f e rs f r om o ther Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized pay- ment by a resident to a non res iden t, i n c l u d i ng in terest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization f rom French and foreign securities held in a fo re ign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonres ident FRANCE by dona t ion or inher i tance; (8) l iqu ida t ion proceeds of non re s iden t -he ld direct investments ° or real estate; and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the in te rmed ia ry of a no t a ry pub l ic, of real estate belonging to nonresi- den ts. These accoun ts may be freely debited for ( 1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange m a r k et by a non re s iden t; (2) the purchase by a non- res ident of fo re ign bankno tes or w i thd rawa ls in French b ankno t e s; (3) the equ iva lent in f rancs of arb i trage ab road in fo re ign cu r renc ies by an au tho r ized b ank; (4) French bankno tes ( and those of Operations Account c o u n t r i e s) ma i led by au tho r ized banks direct to their fo re ign corresponden ts; (5) t r an s f e rs to other Foreign A c coun ts in F rancs; (6) approved d irect inv e s tm ent in France by non res iden ts; <{ (7) purchases of real estate f rom res iden ts, through the in te rmed ia ry of a no tary pub l ic; (8) purchases in France of French or fore ign secu r i t ies; (9) in te rest on and repayment of loans g ran ted in accordance with the re levant regu la t ions by res iden ts: and ( 1 0) any payment by a non res ident to a re s iden t. If French f r a n cs acc ru ing to a nonres ident are not t r a n s f e r a b l e, or not immed ia te ly t ran s fe rab le, they may be c red i ted to a Suspense A c count in f rancs in the n ame of the b e n e f i c i a r y; ba lances up to F 50,000 that existed on Augu st 9, 1973 have been released. The un rem i t tab le f u n ds of em ig ran ts of French na t iona l i ty must be r e t a in ed in res ident accoun ts (comptes interieurs) u n t il they become nonres iden ts (i.e., u n t il they have stayed in a foreign country for two years); emigrants of foreign n a t i o n a l i ty become non res iden ts imm e d i a t e ly and there- fore may take out a ll of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods o r i g i n a t i ng in and shipped f rom other parts of the French F ranc Area or f r om ce r ta in other coun t r ies that are accorded privileged t rea tment in respect of t rade t ransac t ions (see section on Exchange Control Te r r i to ry, above) are genera l ly adm i t ted free of quan- t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion and ind iv idu al license. Imports of goods w h i ch o r ig in a te in other countries and are not covered by French impo rt l ibe ra l iza t ion requ ire ind i- v idual licenses. Some imports f rom EEC countries and some o ther impo r ts f rom non-EEC coun t r ies are subject to m i n im um prices; these require an adm in i s t r a t ive visa and some t imes, exceptionally, an import license. For impo rt con trol purposes, coun tr ies outside the French F ranc Area are divided in to four groups accord- ing to the ex tent of impo rt l ibe ra l iza t ion: ( 1) the fo rmer OEEC coun t r ies, the ir dependent territories and certain fo rmer dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Ethiopia, F i j i, F in land, Liberia, the Sudan, the Un i ted States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) 46 specified coun- 5 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries, the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue ( for New Ca ledon ia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, Wallis and F u t u na Is lands, and St. Pierre et Miquelon). 6 Subject to compliance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Febru- ary 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. 1 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE t r i e s ;7 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R.) and the People's Republic of China; and (4) the Ge rman Democratic Republic. Commodi- ties that may be imported free of qu an t i t a t ive restric- tions f rom one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported f rom the next group of countries plus some other specified commodi- ties. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrange- ments applicable to one country may be impor ted freely f rom another coun t ry, provided that the coun t ry of o r ig in and the coun t ry of sh ipment both benef it f rom the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products f rom countries in group (1) are free of qu an t i t a t ive restric- tions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of ag r icu l tu ral products; there is relatively little d i f fe rence between the lists of goods wh ich may be imported free ly from d i f fe rent countries in this group, these d ifferences relating, maimy to Kong Kong and Macao. Imports of ce r ta in indu s t r ial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain add i t ional indus t r ial products f rom group ( 3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated sem iannua l ly and app ly to all coun tr ies o ther than those hav ing the benef it of b i la te r- a l ly negotiated quotas or of privileged t r e a tm en t. Imports f r om a ll coun tr ies of ce r ta in ag r i cu l tu r al items and ce r ta in raw ma ter ia ls are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to impor ts; common EEC regula- t ions are also applied to impor ts f rom non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to t rade control fo rma l i t ies, only a customs document that con s t i tu tes the customs declaration be ing requ i red; however, as an exchange control measu re, the domiciliation of the import transac t ion at an authorized bank may be pre- scribed. For some liberalized imports, an adm in is t ra t ive visa issued by the central Customs Adm in is t ra t ion or by the competent technical m in is try is requ ired on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty require licenses when or ig ina t ing in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require ind iv idual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas de term ined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and applicable to specified countries or areas 7 A fgh an i s t an, A rgen t ina, Au s t ra l ia, B h u t a n, Bolivia, B raz i l, B u rm a, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egyp t, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ra s, Ind i a, Indones ia, I ran, I r aq, Israel, J a p a n, J o r d a n, Ko r e a, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zea land, N i c a r a g u a, Pak is tan, Panama, Pa raguay, Pe ru, Philippines, Saudi Arab ia, Sou th A f r ica, Sri Lanka, Syrian A r ab Republic, Tha i land, U r u g u a y, Vene- zuela, and Yemen. 182 in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the compensation transaction pro- cedure, which applies mainly to goods of Eastern Euro- pean origin. Because of the high degree of import l ibera l iza t ion, imports under this scheme are of slight importance. Payments for imports f rom foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with fore ign currency purchased in the French exchange mar- ket. Impo rt t ransac t ions re la t ing to fore ign countries and va lued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. The amoun ts which may be transferred through postal channe ls are not subject to l im i ta t ion, but in practice the Postal Adm in is tra t ion does not make import paymen ts va lued at over F 50,000, as it does not m a i n t a in files for purposes of dom ic i l ia t ion. AA\tY\oYvz.ed bar\ks, may without special authorization a l low advance paymen ts to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance paymen ts require prior approval by the Customs Adm in is t ra t ion. For all impo r ts, impo r te rs may purchase spot foreign currency eight wo rk ing days be fo re u t i l iza t ion; u t i l iza t ion cannot take place before the payment fa l ls due. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. Two months' forward cover for import payments can be obtained for any commodity; for the import of specified raw mate- r ia ls and specified foods tu f fs (unroas ted coffee, corn, rice, e tc .) fo rwa rd cover for six months or one year is available. The fore ign currency may be purchased for- wa rd at the t ime of domiciliation, but the ma tu r i ty of the fo rwa rd exchange contract must not exceed the date on which the commercial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for cu r rent invisibles to fo re ign countries are controlled but not restricted as to amoun t. If jus t i fy- ing documen ts are presented and certain exchange con- t rol requ i remen ts are met, au thor ized banks are per- m i t ted to approve app l ica t ions for paymen ts without any l im i t a t i on for m any ca tegor ies of cu r r ent invisibles, and up to established limits for cer ta in other categories of cu r rent invisibles. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established l im i ts are r e f e r r ed to the Bank of France to prevent unau tho r ized cap i tal t rans fe rs; such applications are approved if a genuine cu r rent payment is involved. Any resident may free ly and at any t ime make remittances abroad up to the equ iva lent of F 1,500 a person w i thout ind i c a t ing the ir purpose, provided that the t r an s f e rs do not cons t i tu te ins ta l lmen ts of paymen ts exceeding F 1,500, are not for purposes subject to special alloca- t ion, and do not serve to accumu la te funds abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments which may be authorized without l im i ta t ion by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doc- tors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance w i th court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three mon ths f r om the date of paymen t. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- ta in transac t ions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer- tain transac t ions re la t ing to insu rance, re insu rance, and road and river transpor t. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign coun tr ies by residents (de f ined for this purpose as inc lud ing residents of Opera t ions Account coun t r ie s) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a t r ip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equiva- lent of F 500 a person a day. App l ica t ions for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital ou t f low is invo lved. Any unu t i l ized fo re ign cur- rency in excess of the equ iva lent of F 1,000 must be surrendered upon re tu rn to France. Applications for travel exchange c a n n ot be subm i t ted ea r l ier than one month before depa r tu re. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unres tr ic ted for the se t t lement of travel expenditures; in add i t ion, the ho lder may use them to obtain funds f rom banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fa res for t r ips s ta r t ing in France may be paid in f rancs in France, as may ho tel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident trave lers going to fo r e ign coun tr ies may take out F 5,000 in French bankno tes. These b ankno t es may be spent abroad, and any am o u nt taken out is charged against the basic exchange a l loca t ion of F 5,000. Non- resident trave lers may take out F 5,000 in French bank- notes and may reconvert into fo re ign cu r rency in the French exchange m a r k et any French bankno tes up to F 5,000 ob ta ined by the conversion in that ma rket of foreign m e ans of p a ym e nt that they declared upon en t ry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any r em a in ing French bankno tes must be deposited w i th the customs aga inst issuance of a receipt. Resident t rave le rs may f ree ly take out the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in means of payment when acquired in the exchange ma rket aga in st a tou r ist t ravel a l loca t ion. Non- resident travelers may not, in pr inc ip le, take out more than the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in fo re ign bankno tes unless they were declared upon en try and the anno ta ted declaration fo rm shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that impor ted m inus any amoun ts exchanged for f r an cs plus any reconversion of f r an cs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers FRANCE may also freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, any amount in foreign banknotes or fore ign currency trav- elers checks acquired in France f rom an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses, but if the total va lue does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collector's items), these exports may be permitted with- out any fo rma l i ty, subject to certain exceptions. Regard- less of their value, exports through compensa t ion trans- actions w i th cer ta in countries 8 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are requ ired. Exports to fo re ign coun t r ies are subject to exchange con tro l. Payment must be received through the official exchange marke t. The repatriation •' and, where appro- p r ia te, the su r render by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f r om exports to fore ign countries is requ i red, n o rm a l ly w i th in one mon th of the date on which the p aym ent fa l ls due but in any case w i th in 8 wo rk ing days of receipt by a French bank. Authorized banks may f ree ly extend fo re ign cu r rency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the exchange ma rke t, as may the proceeds f rom the d i s c o u n t i ng of fore ign cu r rency d ra f ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract ( a n d, therefore, the due date of the export receipts) may not be more than 180 days af ter a r r ival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion, except with special au tho r iza- t ion or when a gua ran tee by the Compagn ie Franchise d 'Assu rance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been obtained. Export proceeds must not be received in French or fo re ign banknotes or banknotes issued by an in s t i tu te of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal check- ing account in France. All export transactions related to fore ign countries and valued at F 50,000 or more mu st be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized bank; the Director- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms f rom domiciliation requ i remen ts. Ce r ta in goods purchased in France by persons not n o rm a l ly residing in France are considered as exports even when pa id for in Franch f ranc s, and are exempt f rom taxes. * A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, G e rm an Democratic Republic, H u n g a r y, Nor th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, Tu rk ey, U.S.S.R., Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American coun t r ies. 0 Repa t r ia t ion may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign A c count in Francs. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month f rom the due date and in any case within eight work ing days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, CFP f rancs, or any fore ign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must within a month of entry sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 that they bring in. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securi- ties abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts f rom fore ign countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special con- trols over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inves tmen t). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a family unit. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs m o n t hs f rom receipt of the d e c l a r a t i on d u r i ng wh ich he may request the po s tpon em ent of the p ro jec ts s u bm i t t ed to h im. If the am o u nt invo lved is mo re t h an F 1 m i l l i o n, d o c um e n t a ry ev idence must be subm i t ted to the Direc- to ra te of the T r e a su ry be fo re the l i q u i d a t i on proceeds of fo re ign d i rect i n v e s tm e n ts in F rance may be t r a n s f e r r ed ab road, and the l i q u i d a t i on i t se lf mu st be repo r ted to the M i n i s t er w i t h in 20 days a f t er it t ak es p lace. As an excep t ion to the d e c l a r a t i on and app rov al r e q u i r em e n ts s umm a r i z ed e a r l i er in t h is p a r a g r a p h, the m a k i ng or t he l i q u i d a t i on of d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n ts ab road by r e s id en ts is exempt f r om p r ior d e c l a r a t i on or p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on when the am o u nt invo lved does not exceed F 3 m i l l i on a year for each b en e f i c i a ry f i rm ab road, and p rov ided that the t r a n s a c t i o ns do not i n v o l ve h o l d i ng comp an i e s, inve s tment compan ie s, i n v e s tm e nt t ru s t s, u n it t r u s t s, m u t u al f u n d s, or c om p a n i es whose pu rpose it is to fac i l i ta te the f inanc ing or t r e a s u ry f u n c t i o ns of en te r- prises b e long ing to one or mo re g roups. Also, c e r t a in inwa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent up to F 1 m i l l i on a t r a n s a c t i on is exempt f r om p r ior d e c l a r a t ion or a u t h o r i z a t i o n. Fore ign issues on the French c ap i t al m a r k et are sub ject to p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t er of Econ- omy and F i n a n c e. The r e q u i r em e nt is a p p l i c a b le also to the Opera t ions Account coun t r ie s. Exempt f rom a u t h o r i z a t i o n, howeve r, a re op e r a t ions in conn e c t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gu a r an t ee f r om the French Gov e rnm en t, and (2) shares s im i l ar to secu r i t ies t h at a lready are o f f i c i a l ly quo ted on a stock exchange in France. Bo r row ing ab road by phy s ical or j u r i d i c al persons, whether pub l ic or private persons, whose no rmal resi- dence or registered off ice is in F rance, or by b ranches or subs id iar ies in France of j u r i d i c al persons whose regis- tered off ice is ab road, requ i res p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in is ter of Economy and F inance. The f o l l ow i ng types of bo r row ing are, in p r i n c i p l e, exempt f rom th is a u t h o r i z a t i o n: ( 1) b o r r ow i ng by indu s t r ial f i rms for the execu t ion of wo rks ab road; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance impo r ts or exports of goods; (3) loans re la ted to c e r t a in in t e r- na t ional m e r c h a n t i ng t ran sac t ion s; (4) bo r row ing related to the pe r fo rmance of services (o ther th an income f r om labor or c a p i t a l ), when u n d e r t a k en to f inance ope ra t ions executed abroad or t ran sac t ions w i th fore ign coun t r ies; (5) loans con t r a c t ed by banks expressly perm i t ted to borrow ab road ( these in c lude a ll authorized b a n k s ); and (6) fo re ign cu r r en cy bo r row ing abroad by n o n b a nk f i rms, when the to tal am o u nt ou t- standing of these loans does not exceed F 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the in t e r e st rate is a "normal" m a rk et ra te, that the bo r row ing is not for the purpose of direct inv e s tm en t, th at the fo r e ign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each drawing aga inst the loan is separa ted by at least one year f rom the correspond ing r ep aym en t. All borrow- ings in E u r o f r a n cs are subject to p r ior au tho r i z a t ion. FRANCE The app l i c a t ion of the controls over direct inves tment and bo r row ing is delegated to the Bank of France in so far as they re la te to French firms that are m a i n ly engaged in real estate business. L e n d i ng ab road is subject only to exchange control a u t h o r i z a t i on by the Bank of F rance, which is given or w i thh e ld w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of d irec t ives issued by the Treasury. Since the impos i t ion of exchange con trol in 1968, au tho r i z ed banks have been v i r t u a l ly f ree to lend fo r e ign cu r rency to non res iden ts, subject to ce r ta in r e s e r v a t i o ns in respect of the g r a n t i ng of gua ran tees and v a r y i ng l im i t a t i o ns on the ir ex te rnal position, and to r e s id ent impo r t e rs and exporters. L end ing to nonresi- den ts in f r a n c s, however, is p roh ib i ted, w i th m inor excep t ions. Au tho r i z ed bank s' fo r e ign cu r rency assets and the ir o v e r a ll l i a b i l i t i es in f r a n cs and fo r e ign cu r r en cy to non- r e s i d e n ts a re f ree f r om l im i t a t i o n. Au tho r ized b a n ks m ay f r e e ly s e ll f o r e i gn exchange on the o f f ic ial exchange m a r k et for the account of non re s iden t s, spot or f o rw a r d. They are a l lowed to pay in te re st on non re s iden t -owned f r a nc or fo r e ign cu r rency deposits. Nonres iden t-he ld f r a nc depos i ts are not sub ject to reserve r equ i r em en t s, w h e t h er on ba lances held or on inc reases th e r e in. Non r e s id en ts may f ree ly pu rchase French shor t- term secu r i t ie s, i n c l u d i ng t rea su ry bills, bons de caisse, and p r i v a te d r a f t s. Gold^ Res iden ts are f r ee to ho ld, acqu i re, and dispose of gold in any f o rm in France. They may con t inue to hold ab road any gold they held the re prior to November 25, J968. There is a free gold ma rket for bars and coins in Pa r i s, to wh ich res iden ts have f r ee and a n o n ym o us access and in wh ich n o rm a l ly no o f f ic ial i n t e r v e n t i on takes place. Impo r ts and exports of gold i n to or f r om the t e r r i t o ry of con t in en t al France r equ i re p r ior au tho r i- za t ion by the B ank of France, wh ich is not no rm a l ly g r an t ed for mone ta ry gold but u s u a l ly is given for i n d u s t r i al gold. Exempt f rom th is r equ i r em ent a re ( 1) im p o r ts and expor ts of gold addressed to or sh ipped by the Bank of France; (2) impo r ts and exports of m a n u- f a c tu r ed ar t ic les c o n t a i n i ng on ly a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and go ld-p la ted ar t ic les; (3) impo r ts and exports by pr iva te persons of gold objects (o ther t h an meda ls and bars, but i n c l u d i ng both personal and o ther jewe l ry) or n um i sm a t ic gold coins, provided that the ir combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collector's i tems of gold and gold an t iques that are expor ted u n d er export licenses gran ted w i th the app roval of the D irec tora te of Mu seum s. Both l icensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are sub ject to customs decla- r a t i o n. The impo rt and export of c e r t a in gold objects t h at are considered merchand ise, such as gold watches, are subject to both the regular import and export licens- ing a r rangemen ts and to licensing by the Bank of France. 11 W i th e f fect f r om J anu a ry 1, 1977 domestic t ran sac t ions in gold and gold coins became subject, to cap i tal gains tax. 1 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic t rad ing, purchases of monetary gold (bars and co ins) are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of mone tary gold are exempt f rom cus toms du ty and value-added tax. Changes during 1976 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in qu an t i t a t ive import regu la t ions were made in accordance w i th EEC decisions, directives, and regu la- t ions; most of these related to tex t i les or beef and vea l. January 1. The restrictions of March 2, 1975 on impo r ts of t u na for i n d u s t r i al processing were ex tended indef in i te ly. January 3. Law No. 75-1337 of December 3 1, 1975 was promu lga ted. The Comoros, w i th the exception of M ayo t t e, ceased to be pa rt of the French Repub l ic. For exchange control purposes, however, the Comoros was not regarded as a fo re ign coun t ry. January 9. The Bank of France addressed a le t ter to au tho r ized banks d e a l i ng w i th the purchase of seconda ry residences abroad that are to be ren ted t empo r a r i ly d u r i ng the yea r. Banks were r em ind ed th at such pu r- chases required i n d i v i d u al approval by the Bank of F rance, wh ich, however, wou ld be g ran ted up to F 300,000 a f am i ly un it provided that they did not represent a purely f in an c i al inves tmen t. January 15. The regulation of Ap r il 25, 1975 wh ich had subjected to an a dm i n i s t r a t i ve visa l ib e r a l i z ed im- ports of cer ta in co t ton ya rns f rom coun t r ies in L ibera l i- za t ion Zones I and II (except EEC member s ta tes) and of c e r t a in co t ton or syn th e t ic f ab r i cs f rom L ibe ra l iza t ion Zone I (except EEC member s ta tes) was ex tended u n t il F e b r u a ry 1. The r e l ev ant No t ice to Im p o r t e rs was sub- sequen t ly extended and modified several t imes. January 15. The regu la t ion of August 9, 1975 wh ich had subjected to an a dm i n i s t r a t i ve visa l ibera l ized im- por ts of c e r t a in lea ther foo tw e ar f r om a ll coun t r i es (except EEC member s ta tes) was ex tended u n t il Febru- ary 1. The re levant No t ice to Impo r te rs was subse- quen t ly extended and modified several t imes. January 15. The regu la t ion of August 9, 1975 wh i ch had subjected to an adm in i s t ra t ive visa l ibera l ized impo r ts of c e r t a in tex t i le p roduc ts f r om c o u n t r i es in L ibe ra l iza t ion Zone I (except EEC member states) was ex tended u n t il Feb rua ry 1. The re levant No t ice to Importers was subsequently extended and modified several t imes. February 15. Imports of certain sports foo twear and lea ther sanda ls f r om a ll coun t r ies (except EEC m emb er states) became subject to adm in is tra t ive visa un t il May 15. The same requ i rement was app l ied u n t il May 15 to cer ta in underwear imported f rom coun tr ies of L ibe ra l i- zation Zone I (except EEC member s t a t e s ), and to cer- ta in garments imported f rom Mau r i t ius. February 19. The superv is ion over purchases and sales of personal real estate abroad was tightened. The 186 regulations and approval policies remained unchanged. February 19. Decree No. 76-175 provided that w i th e f fect f rom February 23 the issue of currency in Mayotte would no longer be the responsibility of the Ins t i tu te of Issue of the Comoro Islands, and French banknotes and co ins wou ld be substituted for the CFA f r a nc as legal tender. French banknotes would be placed in circula- t ion by the Overseas I n s t i t u te of Issue, and French coins by the Treasury. February 19. Decree No. 76-176 revised the charter of the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue in accordance with Decree No. 76-175. March 9. A fu r th er F 3 b i l l ion was made available und er the cred it f a c i l i ty of Ma rch 1975 for the f i n a n c i ng of new indu s t r ial investment by firms expand ing their expo rt capac i ty or conserving energy. March 15. France suspended its participation in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r r a n g em e n t. April 1. The tax introduced on September 11, 1975 by Decree No. 75-846 on impo r ts of ce r ta in w ines f r om I t a ly was abolished by Decree No. 76-287 of March 31. April 7. The Bank of France issued w i th its Note No. 68 to au tho r ized banks a Treasury Note summa r iz ing some aspects of the ex is t ing con t ro ls over d irect invest- men ts, offices abroad, and cer ta in inves tment transac- t i o ns e f f e c t ed by the b a n k i ng sector and the in su r an ce sector. This Note, which supplemented the Treasury's No te No. 61 of August 23, 1974, did not in t roduce any m a j or changes in regulations or approval policies. May 24. Law No. 76-448 t e rm i n a t ed the monopoly of the Service d'Exp lo i ta t ion Indus t r ie l le des Tabacs et des A l um e t t es (SEITA) in so f ar as the im p o r t i ng and who lesa l ing of m anu f a c tu r ed tobacco ( i n c l u d i ng tobacco p rodu c t s) f r om EEC coun t r ies we re concerned. June 8. Impo r ts of tomatoes f rom all coun tr ies (ex- cept EEC member s t a t e s) we re suspended. June 23. The geographic app l ica t ion of the system of im p o rt l ib e r a l i z a t ion was mod i f ied. E th iop ia, Fiji, L i- be r ia, Wes tern Samoa, and the Sudan were added to L i b e r a l i z a t i on Zone I; E th iop ia, E r i t r e a, L ibe r ia, and the Sudan were e l im ina ted f r om L ibe ra l iza t ion Zone II. June 28. Expor ts of sugar beet and o ther a n im al feed- s t u f fs to all countries (except EEC member s ta tes) re- qu i r ed a license. On Ju ly 10, such expo r ts became sub- ject to export taxes imposed in accordance w i th an EEC r e g u l a t i on of Ju ly 8. June 29. A Notice to Impo r te rs was published pro- v i d i ng that u n t il September 15 im p o r ts of spec if ied types of lea ther foo twear f rom all countries were subject to a dm i n i s t r a t i ve v i sa. The No t ice also listed the v a r ious types of tex t i le products subject u n t il September 15 to a dm i n i s t r a t i ve v isa when of non -EEC o r ig in or o r ig ina t- ing in M au r i t iu s, and revoked the relevant Notices to Impo r te rs of April 25, 1975, August 9, 1975, and Febru- ary 15, 1976. The Notice of June 29 was amended on September 1; on September 15 it was ex tended un t il October 1, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution then to October 15 and October 22. On October 22, most of i ts prov is ions were ex tended u n t il December 3 1, and cer ta in fe r t i l ize rs (see August 7, b e l ow ), d iscon- t inuous syn the t ic t ex t i le f ibers, and c e r t a in g a rm en ts were added to the products r equ i r ing an adm in i s t r a t ive visa, wh i le velvet and lea ther sanda ls were om i t ted. July 1. French and I ta l ian footwear m a n u f a c t u r e rs agreed on cer ta in v o l u n t a ry r e s t r a i n ts in respect of ex- ports of leather shoes to France. July 5. A wide v a r i e ty of m i n or export p romo t ion measures were announ c ed. They in c lud ed c e r t a in ex- change con trol concessions, imp roved export cred it guaran tees, and the ex tens ion of the la t ter to serv ice companies. Export f i n a n ce prev ious ly res t r ic ted to ex- porters of heavy cap i tal goods wou ld be m ade a v a i l a b le to small and med ium-s ized compan ie s. July 8. The T reasu ry a n n o u n c ed th at the B a nk of France could au tho r ize more l ibe ra l ly the open ing of bank accoun ts abroad by expo r te r s, u n d er i n d i v i d u al permissions. Subject to certain conditions, such permis- s ions cou ld be g ran ted w i th a v a l i d i ty of one yea r. The f a c i l i ty was l im i t ed to m a jor expo r te rs e f f e c t i ng a la rge numb er of t r a n s a c t i o ns and cou ld not be renewed if the f i rm 's export t u r n o v er f e l l. July 14. A c i r c u l ar of J u ly 12 im p r o v ed the f a c i l i t i es for f o rw a rd exchange cover in two respects. In c e r t a in cases, the f o rw a rd sale of fo r e ign c u r r e n cy cou ld be offset by a f o rw a rd pu rcha se of fo r e ign c u r r e n c y, and subject to ce r ta in cond i t ions, fo rw a rd purchases of fo r- eign c u r r e n cy we re p e rm i t t ed to cover accessory ex- penses on exports of goods. The m a x im um periods for impo rt cover r em a i n ed u n c h a n g ed at 3, 6, or 12 m o n t h s, depend ing on the commodity. July 19. Law No. 76-664 made St. P i e r re et M i q u e l on an Overseas D e p a r tm e n t. August 7. Impo r ts of c e r t a in l i b e r a l i z ed pho spha te f e r t i l i z e rs f r om c o u n t r i es of L i b e r a l i z a t i on Zone I ( ex- cept EEC m emb er s t a t e s) became sub ject to a dm i n i s- t r a t i ve v i sa u n t il December 3 1. On Oc tober 22 the r e q u i r em e nt became a p p l i c a b le a lso to L i b e r a l i z a t i on Zone II. August 10. A c i rcu lar of J u ly 28 came i n to e f fect wh i ch m o d i f i ed t he c o n t r o ls on i nw a rd a nd o u tw a rd direct i n v e s tm e n t. The am o u nt of d i rect i n v e s tm e nt abroad t h at r e s i d e n ts cou ld m a ke w i t h o ut p r i or d e c l a r a- t ion or a u t h o r i z a t i on was inc reased f r om F 1 m i l l i on to F 3 m i l l i o n. The d e f i n i t i on of a F rench d i r e ct i n v e s t- m ent ab road w as ex tended to i n c l u d e, u n d er d i rect i n v e s tm e n ts r e a l i z ed t h r o u gh the i n t e rm e d i a ry of f o r e i gn comp an i es u n d er the c o n t r ol of r e s i d e n t s, c e r t a in i n v e s t- m en ts made by h o l d i n g, i n v e s tm e n t, or p o r t f o l io com- p an i es a nd c e r t a in i n v e s tm e n ts f i n a n c ed u n d er t he g u a r- an tee of a re s iden t. Any phy s ical t i t le r e p r e s e n t i ng the p a r t i c i p a t i on by a re s ident i n v e s t or in a f o r e i gn c om p a ny had to be repa t r ia ted to France th rough an au thor ized b a n k, or to be depos i ted and m a i n t a i n ed abroad in the dossier of an au tho r ized b a n k. W i th respect to p aym en ts ab road r e l a t i ng to the l i q u i d a t i on of f o r e i gn d i rect in- FRANCE v e s tm e n ts in French compan ies m a in ly engaged in real estate opera t ions, the au tho r ized bank concerned hence- f o r th had to subm it do cum en t a ry ev idence to the Bank of France whenever the total amount to be t r an s f e r r ed in respect of a s ing le real estate program exceeded F 1 m i l l i o n. Res iden ts h a v i ng made direct i n v e s tm e n ts abroad now had to subm it annu a l ly to the Treasury the ba lance sheet, the ope ra t ing accoun t s, and the prof it and loss statements of the ir foreign subsidiaries or branches. They also had to n o t i fy the Treasury of any changes in the cap i tal s t ruc tu re of, and shareholdings in, their fo r- e ign a f f i l i a t e s, as we ll as of any m a j or changes in a fo re ign aff i l ia te's activity. The c i r c u l ar also mod i f ied the r egu l a t ions r eg a rd ing guaran tees given by residents in favor of nonresidents or by n o n r e s i d e n ts in favor of res iden ts. The d e f i n i t i on of French direct inves tmen ts abroad was extended to i n c l u de any gua ran tees or coun t e rgu a r an t e es g iven by residents in f avor of their affiliates abroad, or in favor of fo r e ign compan ies wh ich they con trol or wh i ch are con tro l led by French companies of the same group. September 22. A supp l em en t a ry budget for 1976 p rov ided t h at im p o r ts of pe t ro leum and pe t ro leum prod- uc ts in 1977 wou ld be l im i t ed to F 55 b i l l ion. The c e i l i ng for 1976 had been F 51 b i l l i o n. September 23. The r e g u l a t i o ns r e g a r d i ng the repa t r ia- t i on and s u r r e n d er by res iden ts of export proceeds and o ther rece ip ts f r om non r e s id en ts were m o d i f i e d. The p r i n c i p al change was th a t, whe re p a ym e nt was received in f o r e i gn cu r r en cy, the au tho r i z ed b ank conce rned was r e q u i r ed to sell the fo r e ign c u r r e n cy on the exchange m a r k e t, on i ts own i n i t i a t i v e, w i t h in eight days f r om the da te of rece ip t, i .e ., f r om the da te on wh i ch the b ank 's account w i th i ts f o r e i gn co r respondent was cred i ted. Whe re the p a ym e nt was made to the deb it of a f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy account held in France by a non re s iden t, th is pe r iod ran f r om the rece ipt of the f u n ds by the b a n k. The e igh t-day period was app l icab le also where it short- ened the g lobal m a x i m um of one mon th ( a f t er the due date of the p a ym e n t) w i th in which claims on non res i- d en ts had to be collected and any fo r e ign c u r r e n cy pro- ceeds s u r r e n d e r ed by sale on the exchange m a r k e t. September 23. The t ime at wh i ch impo r te rs cou ld pu r ch a se spot fo r e ign exchange was changed f rom one m o n th b e fo re the p a ym e nt f e ll due (or one m o n th be fo re s h i pm e nt if a d o c um e n t a ry c red it was o p e n e d) to at most e ig ht days b e fo re u t i l i z a t i o n. A f t er th at period, the a u t h o r i z ed b a nk conce rned was requ i red to sell back on the exchange m a r k et any u n u t i l i z ed exchange. September 23. The period for wh ich impo r te rs cou ld pu rcha se fo r e ign cu r r en cy fo rw a rd was reduced to two m o n t hs for those commod i t ies p rev iou s ly e l ig ib le for three months' cover. September 23. The amount that res iden ts cou ld under a general permission t ran s fer abroad for the purchase of real es ta te for personal use, as the ir pr inc ipal or 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE secondary residence, was reduced f r om F 300,000 to F 150,000 a family unit. October 13. The Prime Minister announced that bor- rowing abroad would be restrained. October 29. Imports of liberalized carded woolen cloth, when originating in and shipped f rom countries in Liberalization Zone I, could be made under the import declaration procedure without adm in i s t ra t ive visa. November 30. A bill was adopted which substituted the French f ranc for the CFA f ranc as the currency of French Polynesia, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and the islands of Tromelin, Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa, and Bassas da Ind ia. The Over- seas Institute of Issue was charged with the issue of French banknotes in these territories. December 15. Imports of certain liberalized leather footwear (specified in the Notice to Importers of October 22 referred to under June 29, above) ceased to be subject to administrative visa when originating in and shipped f rom EEC member states. (On J anu a ry 1, 1977, the Notice to Importers of October 22, as amended on December 15, was extended until Janua ry 15, 1977, then until February 1, and finally, with fu r ther amendmen ts, until June 30, 1977. With the amendments of February 1, 1977, the visa requirement under this Notice applied only to certain fertilizers, certain cotton yarn, certain discontinuous synthetic textile fibers, and certain under- wear; all of these items were exempt when or ig ina t ing in EEC member states. On the same date, an adm in i s t ra t ive v isa was requ i red und er the Notice of September 6, 1970 for cer ta in cotton cloth of non-EEC or ig in .) December 21. An agreement creating an A f r ican Solidarity Fund was signed. In addition to France, the signatories were Ben in, Bu rund i, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta, and Zaire. The Fund's initial resources were fixed at CFAF 5 bil- lion (F 100 m i l l ion ). December 22. Imports of certain products f rom Hong Kong were liberalized. December 24. Law No. 76-1212 made Mayo t te a territory w i th in the French Republic (collectivite terri- torial e). December 28. Law No. 76-1222 made New Caledonia an Overseas Territory. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par va lue or cen t ral ra te for the cu r rency of Gabon has been established w i th the Fund. The u n it of currency is the CFA Franc ,1 wh i ch is o f f i c i a l ly m a i n- ta ined at the ra te of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c. Exchange transactions in French f ranc s, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, between the Banque des Etats de TA f r i q ue Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, f r ee of commission. Exchange rates for fo re ign cu r renc ies are based on the f ixed ra te for the French f r a nc and the Pa r is exchange ma rket rate for the cu r r en cy conce rned, and in c lude a comm iss ion. W i th the excep t ion of those r e l a t ing to gold, Gabon's exchange con trol measures do not apply to ( 1) France ( and i ts Overseas D ep a r tm en ts and Terr i tor ies, except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other coun t r ies whose b ank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B e n i n, Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Ivo ry Coast, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all p aym en ts to these coun t r ies may be made f r e e ly. All other coun t r ies, except Gabon i t s e l f, are considered fore ign coun t r ies and, in p r inc ip le, f i n a n c i al re la t ions only w i th fore ign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions in the M in i s t ry of Economy, F inance, and Pa r t ic ipa t ion super- vises borrow ing and l e n d i ng ab road, the issu ing, adver- tising, or sale of fo re ign securities in Gabon, and inwa rd and ou tward direct inves tmen t. Exchange con t rol is adm in is te red by the M in is ter of Economy, F inance, and Pa r t ic ipa t ion who has delegated h is approval au tho r i ty for current payments to the authorized banks and that w i th respect to the ex ternal position of the b anks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be effec ted through au tho r ized in te r- mediaries, i.e., the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Ex ternal Trade in the M i n i s t ry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Pa r t ic ipa t ion. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Opera t ions Account c o u n t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies of the French F ranc 1The CFA f r a nc c i r cu l a t ing in Gabon is issued by the B anque des Etats de 1'Afr ique Cen t ra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cu r rency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Settle- men ts w i th all other coun tr ies are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currenc ies of those coun tr ies or in French francs through Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions p e r t a i n i ng to non res ident accounts are based on those app l ied in France. BEAC bankno tes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been ma i led direct to the BEAC agency in L ib rev i l le by au tho r ized banks' fo re ign corresponden ts. Otherwise, the c red i t ing to nonresident accounts of BEAC bankno te s, French bankno tes, or bankno tes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Opera- t ions Account w i th the French Treasury is proh ib i ted. Imports and Import Payments Some impo r ts are prohibited for secu r i ty or health reasons. Imports of cement and wheat flour f r om all sources o ther t h an member coun t r ies of the Cen t ral A f r i c an Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC) r equ i re special au tho r iza t ion. A ll other impo r ts f r om coun t r ies in the French Franc Area and f rom member coun t r ies of the EEC o ther th an France (o r ig in al mem- ber coun t r ies on ly) may be made f ree ly. A ll impo r ts f r om o ther coun tr ies except UDEAC members are sub- ject to d i sc re t iona ry licensing. In prac t ice, licenses are gran ted freely. A special l icens ing procedure is applica- ble to the impo rt of pe tro leum products. All import transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank. Import licenses en t i t le impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the au tho r ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc Area are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to o ther coun tr ies are sub ject to approva l. For m a ny types of payment the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to au thor ized banks. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to t rade are pe rm i t ted f r e e ly when the basic t rade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- t ion. Transfers of income acc ru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic t ran sac t ion has been approved. For tour ist t rave l, residents t rave l ing to coun tr ies other than France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies of the French 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any num- ber of trips a year; any foreign exchange rema in ing after re tu rn to Gabon must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel to fore ign countries, there is a special alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 500,000 a tr ip. Tourist and busi- ness travel allocations may not be combined. Travel- ers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted f rom the travel alloca- tion. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonres ident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French F ranc Area are f ree of license. Exports to other coun t r ies of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and certain m i n i ng products requ ire licenses. Unworked gold and u r a n i um are at present exported only to France. Export transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign coun tr ies must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry must be su r rende red. Export proceeds norma l ly must be received w i th in 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commod i t ies at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and sur- rendered if received in a fo re ign cu r rency, w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th F rance (as defined above ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fo re ign assets must be collected, and, if received in foreign currency, be su r rende red w i th in a mon th of the due da te. Resident and non res i- dent t rave le rs may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of coun t r ies outside the French F ranc A rea. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account countries in the French F ranc Area are f r ee of exchange control; capital t ran s fe rs to all other coun t r ies require the approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts f r om such countries are permitted freely. All fo re ign secur i- ties, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on 190 foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrow ing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of fore ign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of fore ign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 2 must be declared to the M in i s t ry of Economy, Finance, and Participation, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom re inves tment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires declaration to the M in is t ry unless the operation involves the relin- qu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign d irect investments in G a b o nr> must be declared to the Minister, unless they take the f o rm of a capital increase resu l t ing f rom reinvestment of und i s t r ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months f r om receipt of the declaration dur ing wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct inves tmen ts in Gabon must also be declared to the M in i s t ry unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as con s t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct investment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Gabonese investments abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in Gabon, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days following each ope ra t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing con trol of a company or en te rp r ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inves tmen t, pro- v ided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fore ign secur i t ies in Gabon requires pr ior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Economy, F inance, and Participation. Exempt f r om au tho r iza t ion, howeve r, a re operations in connec t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Gabonese Gov e rnm ent and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. - I n c l u d i ng those made th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of fo re ign compa- nies th at are d i re c t ly or ind i rec t ly con tro l led by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. " I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Gabon th at are d irec t ly or ind i r e c t ly und er f o r e i gn con trol and those made by branches or sub s id ia r ies in Gabon of f o r e i gn companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Borrow ing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or p r iva te persons, whose no rm al resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requ ires pr ior au tho r i z a t ion by the Minister of Economy, F inance, and P a r t i c i p a t i o n. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f r om th is au tho r iza- t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inve s tment abroad for wh ich prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans d i rec t ly connec ted w i th the r end e r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial t ran sac t ions either between Gabon and coun t r ies abroad or between fo re ign coun tr ies, in wh ich these persons or f irms take par t; (3) loans con trac ted by reg is tered b a n k s; and (4) loans other than those m en t ion ed above, wh en the total amount ou t s t and ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The con t rac t- ing of loans re fe r red to u n d er (4) that are f r ee of au tho r i z a t ion, and each r ep aym ent the reon, mu st be declared to the Office of Foreign F i n a n c i al Re la t ions w i th in 20 days of the ope ra t ion, un less the to tal ou t- s tand ing amount of all loans con trac ted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 m i l l i on or less. L end ing abroad by phys ical or j u r i d i c al persons, whe ther pub l ic or p r i v a te persons, whose no rm al resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by b ranches or subsidiaries in Gabon of j u r i d i c al persons whose regis- tered office is ab road, requ i res p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in i s ter of Economy, F in an c e, and P a r t i c ip a t ion. The f o l l ow i ng are, howeve r, exempt f r om th is a u t h o r i z a t i o n: ( 1) loans g ran ted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the to tal am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one l e n d e r. The m ak ing of loans that are f r ee of au tho r i z a t ion, and each repayment the reon, mu st be dec lared to the Office of Foreign F i n a n c i al Re la t ions w i t h in 20 days of the ope ra t ion, except wh en the to tal o u t s t a n d i ng am o u nt of all loans g ran ted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Under the Inv e s tm ent Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on Ma rch 23, 1967 and J u ly 9, 1971, any GABON en terpr ise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or fo re ign, is granted, u n d er cer ta in cond i t ions, reduced duties and taxes on specified impo r ts, as well as exemp- tion f r om direct taxes on specified income. A m i n i m um of 10 per cent state pa r t ic ipa t ion is requ i red in all m a jor indus t r ial ven tu res. The Code provides for f o ur cate- gories of p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t. In a d d i t i on to fiscal pr iv i leges, e l ig ib le compan ies may receive protection aga inst fo re ign competition and may be g iven p r i o r i ty in the a l loca t ion of impo r ts, or pub l ic c red i t, and of gove rnment contracts. A Presidential Decree of A p r il 11, 1975 provides that fo re ign compan ies inv e s t ing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese na t iona l s. Non-Gabonese f irms or i n d i v i d u a ls are not pe rm i t ted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are f ree to ho ld, acqu i re, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Gabon. Impo r ts and expo r ts of gold r e q u i re p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in i s t er of Economy, F in an c e, and Pa r t ic ipa t ion. Exempt f r om th is r equ i r e- m ent are ( 1) impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t ies and (2) im p o r ts and exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed articles c o n t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic le s ). The expo rt of gold is the monopo ly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d 'Exp lo i ta t ion M i n i e r es ( S O G A R E M ). U nw o r k ed gold may be exported on ly to France. Both l icensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are subject to cus- toms dec la ra t ion. Changes during 1976 January /. The t a r i ff preferences accorded to impo r ts f r om EEC coun t r ies were e l im i n a t ed f r om the common e x t e r n al customs t a r i ff of the UDEAC. March 15. France suspended its pa r t ic ipa t ion in the Eu ropean common m a r g i ns a r r ang em en t; the p a r i ty between the CFA f r a nc and the French f r a nc rema ined unchanged. September 7. Gabon w i thdrew f r om the Common O rgan iza t ion of A f r i c an and Mau r i t ian States. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.426562 g ram of fine gold per Gamb ian Dalasi. Since June 1972, however, the au thor i t ies, wh i le m a i n t a i n i ng a f ixed re la t ion sh ip between the dalasi and sterling, have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate for other currenc ies w i th in prescribed ma rg in s. The Central Bank of The G am b ia deals on ly in s te r l ing and charges a commission of Mo of 1 per cent buy ing, and l/2 of 1 per cent se l l ing, based on the fixed ra te of £ stg. 1 = D 4. The commercial banks deal w i th cus tomers for spot t ran sac t ions in s te r l ing at rates w i t h in 1 per cent of the Bank's fixed ra te and in other cur- rencies at rates determined by the p reva i l ing ma rket rate in London for the cu r rency concerned aga inst sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Trade. The day- to-day a dm i n i s t r a t i on of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The comme rc ial bank s, wh ich have been appo in ted as au thor ized dealers, may au tho r ize sales of cu r renc ies of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area for imports f rom these coun t r ies that are covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amoun ts, for travel expenses and sund ry paymen ts ou ts ide the f o rm er S ter l ing Area. A ll other sales of non-S ter l ing Area currenc ies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Ministry of F inance and Trade is respons ib le for the issue of impo rt and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with fo rmer Sterling Area countries may be made and received f ree ly in s te r l ing or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements w i th other coun- tr ies may be made and received in any non-S ter l ing Area currency other than Rhodes ian cu r rency, or in dalasis or s te r l ing f rom non res ident sources. Settle- men ts w i th the Cen t ral B ank of West A f r i c an States ( f or B e n i n, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a) and w i th G h a n a, L ib e r i a, M a l i, N ige r ia, and S ie r ra Leone are n o rm a l ly made th rough the West A f r i c an C lear ing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by au thor ized dealers in The Gamb ia on behalf of residents of coun tr ies outside the former Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be des- igna ted External Accounts. These may be credited w i th authorized payments f rom residents of countries of the fo rmer Sterling Area, with t ran s fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for any pay- men ts to residents of coun tr ies of the fo rm er Sterling 192 Area, for t r a n s f e rs to other Ex te rnal Accoun ts, and for purchases of non -S te r l ing Area currenc ies. In add i t ion, there is legal p rov is ion for au tho r ized dea le rs to m a i n t a in Blocked Accoun ts u n d er the d i rec t ion of the Cen t ral Bank. Imports and Import Payments The impo rt of certain specified goods is prohibited f r om a ll sources, p r e d om i n a n t ly on social, hea l th, and moral grounds. The import f rom any coun try of rice and wheat flour is sub ject to specific l icen s ing in order to en su re the adequacy of such impo r ts and the ir f a ir domestic pricing. The Gamb ia Produce Marke t ing Board is respons ib le for r ice impo r t s. A ll other impo r ts are freely pe rm i t ted under an open general license if impo r ted f rom the fo l low ing coun t r ie s, but a re subject to specific l icens ing if impor ted f r om other coun tr ies: ( 1) a ll coun tr ies w i th in the fo rmer Sterling Area; (2) A u s t r i a, B e lg ium, Canada, D enm a rk, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Ge rmany, Greece, I ta ly, Luxembourg, the Ne the r land s, No rway, Po r tuga l, Spa in, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Turkey, and the Un i ted States, together w i th the overseas te r r i to r ies of these coun tr ies; and ( 3) A rg en t in a, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Egyp t, I r an, Iraq, Lebanon, Ma l i, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, Th a i l and, U r u g u a y, Venezue la, and Yugos lav ia. Impo r ts f r om the fo rm er S ter l ing Area countries may be pa id for f ree ly in da las is or in any o ther currency of the fo rmer Sterling Area. Settlement for imports f rom other coun tr ies may be approved by an au thor ized dealer on produc t ion of ev idence of impo r ta t ion for any com- mod i ty that is covered by a va l id specific import license. For impo r ts f r om ou ts ide the f o rm er S ter l ing Area that do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Cen tral Bank on produc t ion of evidence of impo r ta t ion or sh ipmen t. Advance paymen ts for impo r t s, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Cen t ral Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genu ine and in accordance with the no rmal practice of the t rade. Paymen ts for imports f rom coun tr ies outside the f o rm er Sterling Area may be made in da las is or s ter l ing to an Ex te rnal Account or in any non-S ter l ing Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. All goods are subject to an impo rt tax of 1 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue. Impor ts made by the Gove rnmen t, d ip lom a t ic m iss ions, and char i tab le o rgan iza t ions are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to the fo rm er Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments in currencies of other coun t r ies requ i re pe rm iss ion f rom the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank, w i th the exception that au tho r ized dealers have been delegated powers to a u t h o r i ze t ravel expenses and sund ry paymen ts. Such perm iss ion by the Cen t ral Bank is l ibe ra l ly g iven in all g e n u i ne cases. Irrespec t ive of the purpose of the j o u r n e y, a u t h o r i z ed dealers may g rant a basic exchange a l lowance up to D 750 a person a t r ip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one ca lendar year for travel outside the fo rmer S ter l ing Area. For business, p ro fess iona l, or o f f ic ial purposes, au tho r i z ed dea le rs may provide re s iden ts w i th exchange f a c i l i t i es up to D 1,750 for any one jou rney at a ra te not exceeding D 125 a day subject to a m a x im um of D 3,500 in any one ca len- dar year. Any excess over these allowances requ ires permission f rom the Cen t ral B a n k; a ll app l i c a t ions a re approved, provided t h at no c ap i t al ou t f low is invo lved. Of the above amoun t s, up to D 250 may be t ak en in currency notes and coins of coun t r ies ou ts ide the fo rmer Sterling Area. Irrespective of d e s t i n a t i o n, each t rave ler leaving The G am b ia may take out D 75 in G am b i an a n d / or s t e r l ing c u r r e n cy no tes. V is i to rs to The G am b ia may also take out w i th them on d ep a r tu re any other cu r rency notes declared by them when en t e r ing the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local con sump t ion, the export to any des t ina t ion of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific l icens ing. The export of all goods to Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democra t ic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Po land, R om a n i a, the U.S.S.R., and Yugos lav ia also requ i res a specific license. The export of all o ther goods to any other destination is free ly permitted under an open general license. The Gamb ia Produce Ma rke t ing Board is the sole exporter of g roundnut products, oil pa lm kerne ls, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports to countries outside the former Sterling Area must be received w i th in six mon ths f rom the da te of export in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency or in dalasis or sterling f r om. an External Account. THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in currencies of countries outside the fo rmer S ter l ing Area must be offered for sale to au thor ized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of G amb i an or other currency notes. Capital Inw a rd t r a n s f e rs of cap i tal are not controlled. Ou twa rd t r an s f e rs may be effected f ree ly to countries of the f o rm er S te r l ing Area but are subject to control to other coun t r ies. At the t ime of m ak ing inves tmen ts in The G amb i a, non res ident investors may apply for a clearance f rom the Central Bank for subsequent repatriation of c ap i t a l; the r em i t t an ce of profits is f ree ly allowed af ter provisions have been made for local taxes and other lega l ly incurred l iab i l i t ies in The Gamb ia. All other app l i c a t ions to t r a n s f er cap i tal to coun t r i es outside the fo rmer S te r l ing Area are dealt w i th by the Central B ank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to non re s iden ts are sub ject to the au tho r iza t ion of the C e n t r al B ank. Such au tho r iza t ion is norma l ly given f ree ly for the purpose of providing wo rk ing capital to compan ies registered outside The Gamb ia for their ope ra t ions in The G am b i a; once au tho r ized, the loans are subject to the same regu la t ions as those pertaining to resident borrowers. Gold The import of gold coins m in ted in the United King- dom requ i res l i c en s ing by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Trade; o the rw ise, gold coins and bu l l ion may be impo r ted free ly. A ll in te rnal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central B a n k. Ne i ther the Central Bank nor the commerc ial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1976 July L The West A f r i c an Clearing House formally came into operation. October L Impor ts of all goods became subject to an import tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Imports made by the Gove rnmen t, d ip loma t ic missions, and cha r i tab le o rgan iza t ions were exempt. 1 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark. A cen tral ra te of DM 1 = SDR 0.316792 has been established, and G e rm a n y1 avails itself of w ider ma rg ins. G e rm a ny m a in t a ins a m a x im um marg in of 2V* per cent for exchange rates in transac t ions between the deutsche ma rk and the Belgian f r an c, the Danish krone, the Luxembourg f r an c, the Ne the r lands gu i lder, the Norweg ian krone, and the Swedish k ron a. No announced marg ins are observed for other cur- rencies. On December 31, 1976 the closing buy ing rate for the U.S. dollar in F r a n k f u rt was DM 2.3675 per US$1. P rem iums and discounts on fo rw a rd exchange t ransac t ions are no rm a l ly le ft to the in t e rp l ay of ma rket forces. Residents may f r e e ly en ter in to fo rwa rd exchange t ransac t ions among themselves and w i th non res iden ts, irrespective of whe ther there is an u n d e r l y i ng t r an s- action. G e rm any fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f r om February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The adm in i s t r a t ion of control in G e rm a ny in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal M in i s t ry of Econom ics, the Federal M in i s t ry of F inance, the Federal M in i s t ry of T ran spo r ta t ion, the Federal Office for Trade and Indus- t r y, the Federal M in i s t ry for Food, Ag r i cu l tu r e, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Fores try, the Federal Office for Ag r icu l tu ral M a rk e t ing O r g a n i z a t i o n, and the M in i s t r ies of Economics of the Laender. Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law (Au s senw i r t scha f t sge se tz) of 1961 has been invoked to app ly direct controls to ce r ta in inwa rd c ap i t al t ran s- actions between residents and nonres iden ts .2 The Deutsche Bunde sbank, the cen tral bank, is in charge of the imp lemen ta t ion of the cap i tal controls. The Bundes- bank's p r ior approval is requ ired for t ran sac t ions involv- ing the sale by res iden ts to non res iden ts of G e rm an money market paper and fixed-interest securities of G e rm an issuers w i th a r em a i n i ng m a t u r i ty of f o ur years or less or eligible for delivery under en pension t r an s- actions. All banks in G e rm any are pe rm i t ted to ca r ry out fo re ign exchange t ran sac t ion s. A vo lun t a ry coordi- n a t i ng body w i th in the b ank ing sys tem, the Cen t ral Capital Ma rket Committee, fo rmu la tes recommenda- t ions w i th regard to the t im i ng and the te rms of domes- tic and fore ign bond issues, except issues by those ins t i tu t ions that have recourse to the cap i tal ma rket on a permanent basis. 1 The te rm "Germany" is used in th is su rvey as an abb rev ia t ion for the Federal Republic of G e rm a n y, i n c l u d i ng Be r l in (W e s t ). 2 The concepts of res ident and non re s ident are d e f in ed in A r t i c le 4, Section 1, and Article 4a of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law. 194 Imports and Import Payments The Import List, which is part of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law, comprises a to tal of 8,606 statistical positions. Their t rea tment is as follows: some 7,296 i tems may be imported free of license f rom any country except Rhodesia. Commodities corresponding to some 8,000 positions may be imported free of license f rom coun t r ies in Coun try Lists A and B on ly, and com- modities covered by 8,300 positions may be imported f ree of license on ly f rom countries in Coun try List A.a Ce r ta in petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irrespective of or ig in. Impor ts of coal f rom coun- tr ies that are not members of the European Coal and Steel C omm u n i ty are pe rm i t ted w i t h in the f ramewo rk of a global quo ta of 4.009 m i l l ion tons a yea r. The Common Ag r i cu l tu r al Policy of the EEC covers 1,361 s ta t i s t ical i tems; most of these are subject to va r iab le impo rt levies which have in most cases replaced previous b a r r i e rs to imports, but for some i tems an impo rt license is still requ i red by EEC regu la t ions. De facto l ibera l iza t ion is applicable to ce r ta in com- mod i t ies (569 s ta t i s t ical i tem s) when o r ig in a t ing in and purchased f r om A l b a n i a, Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, North Korea, Mongo l ia, Po land, R om a n i a, the U.S.S.R., or North V ie t -Nam. Und er these a r r ang em en t s, impo rt licenses are issued au tom a t i c a l ly upon app l ica t ion, provided that domes t ic produc t ion and prices are not a f fec ted adversely ( A M L A4 p rocedu re ). Impo r ts of 171 commod i t ies among those not subject to l i c e n s i ng r equ i r e, for su rv e i l l an ce purposes on ly, an impo rt dec la ra t ion s tamped by the Federal Office for T rade and Indu s t ry. These import dec la ra t ions are p a r t ly prescribed by the EEC. For impo r ts still subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res t r ic t ion (w i th ce r ta in exceptions, such as food i tems impo r t ed by tou r i s t s, samples, g i f t s, and sma ll p a r c e l s ), an i n d i v i d u al impo rt license is requ i red. App l ica t ions are no rma l ly inv i ted by tender (Ausschrei- b u n g) published in the Federal O f f ic ial Gaze t te. Import licenses may be allocated to impo r te rs either on a first- come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the to tal va lue of app l ica t ions in r e l a t ion to the quo tas established for specified commod i t ies. Some tende rs are p e rm a n e n t ly open ( AM LA p rocedu re ). P aym en ts for impo r ts a re f ree, even if the unde r ly ing impo rt t r an s a c t ion is s t i ll res t r ic ted. Commodity fu tu r es may be dea lt in f r e e ly. Most t r a n s it t r ade t ran sac t ions may also be carr ied out f ree ly. • Coun t r ies in List A are those of the f o rm er OEEC a r ea and F i n l a n d; coun t r i es in List C are A lb an i a, CMEA coun t r ie s. People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, N o r th Ko r e a, and N o r th V i e t -N am; and c o u n t r i es in List B compr ise those inc luded n e i t h er in List A nor in List C. These th ree l is ts are con ta ined in the Im p o rt L is t. Rhodes ia is not i n c l u d ed in any of the t h r ee c o u n t ry l is ts for impo r t s. (See also the e n t ry for December 16, 1976, be low .) 4 Au s sch re ibungen mit l a u f e n d er A n t r a g s t e l l u n g. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les may be made f r e e ly w i t h- out ind iv idual license, except to Rhodes ia. G e rm an and fo re ign notes and co ins and o ther m e ans of p a ym e nt may be exported f ree ly. The fo l low ing t ran sac t ion s —but not the related pay- men ts —be tween res iden ts and n o n r e s i d e n ts a re sub ject to res tr ic t ion: the cha r te r ing of fo re ign sh ips f rom resi- dents of specified coun t r ies and the conc lus ion of sea f re ight con t rac ts w i th t h em; the use of f o r e i gn boats in ce r ta in i n l a nd wa te rways t ra f f ic; t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th speci- f ied coun t r ies (wh ich do not g rant reciprocal t r e a tm e n t) f or h u ll a nd m a r i ne l i a b i l i ty i n s u r a n ce a nd a v i a t i on in su rance, except passenger acc ident in su r an c e; the pro- duc t ion of mo t ion p ic tu res in assoc ia t ion w i th non r e s i- d e n t s; a nd c e r t a in c o n t r a c ts w i th n o n r e s i d e n ts p e r t a i n- ing to mo t ion -p ic tu re f i lms .r> Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted. W i th few excep- t ions, o ther export t r a n s a c t i o ns may be ca r r ied out f r e e ly. For a ll goods, an expo rt n o t i f i c a t i o n, for s t a t i s t i- cal purposes, is requ i red. Ce r ta in expo r ts (m o s t ly stra- tegic goods) a re sub j e ct to i n d i v i d u al l i c e n s i n g. A s im i l ar sys tem ex is ts f or a g r i c u l t u r al c omm o d i t i e s, b ut gene ra l ly for s t a t i s t i c al reasons o n l y. The cu s toms au tho r i t i es exerc ise con t rol over expo rt d e c l a r a t i o ns and a lso check to see w h e t h er a l i c e n se is r e q u i r e d. Fo re ign exchange proceeds f r om expo r ts do not have to be dec la red or s u r r e n d e r e d, and t h ey may be used for a ll paymen t s. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th f ew ex c ep t ion s, se rv ices p e r f o rm ed for n o n r e s i- den ts do not r equ i re l icenses. However, l icenses are requ i red for t r a n s a c t i o ns re la ted to sp e c i f ic sea se rv ice s, a nd f or t e c h n i c al a s s i s t a n ce t h r o u gh t he d e l i v e ry to re s i- den ts of L ist C coun t r i es (see foo tno te 3) of cons t ruc- t i o n al d r aw i n g s, m a t e r i a l s, a nd i n s t r u c t i o ns f or m a n u f a c- tu r e, i n s o f ar as such a s s i s t an ce is for the p rodu c t ion of goods whose export requ i res a l icen se. There a re no r e s t r i c t i o ns on the r e c e ipt of p a ym e n ts for serv ices r e n d e r ed to n o n r e s i d e n t s. However, receipts exceed ing DM 1,000 on account of se rv ices have to be repo r ted. G e rm an a nd f o r e i gn no t es a nd c o i ns a nd o ther m e a ns of p a ym e nt may be impo r t ed f ree ly. Capital R e s i d e n ts a nd n o n r e s i d e n ts m ay expo rt c a p i t al f r e e ly w i thout a l icense, except to Rhod e s i a. Fore ign and i n t e r n a t i o n al bond i s sues on t he G e rm an c a p i t al m a r k et do not r equ i re o f f i c i al app rov a l, a l though a sys tem of vo lun t a ry c o o r d i n a t i on of i s s u i ng b a n ks ( f or purposes •' R e s t r i c t i o ns a re a p p l i ed on ly to t he a c q u i s i t i on f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts of r i g h ts to f i lms t h at a re to be shown in t he o r i g i n al G e r m a n- s p e a k i ng v e r s i on or in a G e r m a n - s y n c h r o n i z ed v e r s i o n, t he a c q u i s i t i on of r i g h ts to f i lms of a ny k i nd o r i g i n a t i ng in CM EA c o u n t r i e s, a nd t he accep tance of f i lm se rv ices f r om CMEA c o u n t r i e s. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY of a better know ledge of the m a r k e t) is operated by the Cen t ral Capital Ma rket Comm i t tee. Domes t ic and fo r- e ign secu r i t ies of a ll types may be im p o r t ed or expo r ted f ree ly. There are no l im i t a t ions on the disposal of lega- cies loca ted in G e rm a ny and inh e r i t ed by n o n r e s i d e n t s, or on legacies located abroad and i n h e r i t ed by r e s id en t s. Res iden ts are not requ ired to repa t r ia te or su r render the ir fo r e ign exchange e a r n i n gs or ho ld ing s. On ly a few types of cap i tal in f lows r em a in r e s t r i c t ed. The p r ior approval of the Bunde sbank is o n ly requ i red for sales to non r e s id en ts of specified dom e s t ic mon ey ma rket paper and of fixed-interest secu r i t ies ° of Ger- man issuers w i th four years or less r em a i n i ng to m a t u r i t y, as we ll as for en pension t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th n o n r e s i d e n ts i n v o l v i ng f ixed- in terest securities of G e rm an issuers where such secur i t ies a re e l ig ib le for de l ive ry in f o ur yea rs or less; the B u n d e s b a nk has s ince 1975 p e rm i t t ed on app l ica t ion the sale of fixed-interest secu r i t ies w i th a r em a i n i ng m a t u r i ty of over two years and up to f o ur yea r s, prov ided that th ey are pa rt of an issue that was n e i th er in i ts en t i r e ty nor in part put in to c i r cu l a t ion p r ior to August 15, 1975. Approval is not n o rm a l ly g r an t ed for the a c q u i s i t i on by n o n r e s i d e n ts of f ixed- in t e r e st secu r i t ies m a t u r i ng in two years or less. Non- re s iden t s' d i rect inv e s tm en ts in G e rm a n y, purchases of r e al es ta te in G e rm a ny for i n v e s tm e nt or personal use, and purchases of G e rm an or fo re ign e q u i t i es do not r e q u i re app rova l. Interest payab le to non r e s id ent ho ld- ers of f ixed- in terest s e c u r i t i es of G e rm an i s su e rs is sub- ject to a w i t h h o l d i ng tax of 25 per cent ("coupon t a x " ). B a n ks a re sub ject to m i n i m um reserve r equ i r em en ts on the level of th e ir fo r e ign l i a b i l i t i es w i th m a t u r i t i es of less th an four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1976 were, in p r in c ip l e, the same as those app l icab le to d om e s t ic l i a b i l i t i e s, i .e ., 14.90 per cen t, 10.35 per cen t, and 6.90 per cent on d em a n d, t im e, and sav ings depo s i t s, respec t ive ly. The p r i n c i p al e x em p t i on is for b a n k s' f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy bo r row ings t h at a re imm e d i a t e ly re inves ted ab road. Banks are free to pay in terest on domes t ic or fo r e ign c u r r e n cy b a l an c es he ld by n o n r e s i d e n t s. Gold Re s iden ts may f ree ly hold gold in any fo rm at home or ab road and may nego t ia te gold in any f o rm w i th r e s i d e n ts or n o n r e s i d e n ts at home or ab road. There is a f ree gold ma rket in F r a n k f u r t. Impo r ts requ i re a l i c e n se f r om the Federal Off ice for Trade and I n d u s t ry w h en the gold is p u r c h a s ed in or o r i g i n a t es in Rhod e s i a. W i th these excep t ions, impo r ts and exports by res iden ts and n o n r e s i d e n ts of gold in any f o rm a re u n r e s t r i c t ed and f r ee of l i c e n s e; a cu s toms d e c l a r a t i o n, howeve r, is requ i red. Impo r ts of u nw o r k ed gold and gold a l loys are free of cu s toms d u ty but are sub ject to va lue -added tax at a 0 I n h a b e r s c h u l d v e r s c h r e i b u n g e n, O r d e r s c h u l d v e r s c h r e i b u n g e n, S c h u l d b u c h f o r d e r u n g e n. and 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY rate of 11 per cent. Imports of mone tary gold by the Bundesbank and impo r ts of gold coins that are recog- nized by the M in i s t ry of F inance as h a v i ng legal tender status ( in c lud ing sovereigns, K rug e r r and, and 10-ruble coins) are exempt f rom th is tax and f rom customs du ty; imports of other gold coins are sub ject to va lue -added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold v a lu e, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not recognized as legal tende r) are subject to va lue-added tax at a ra te of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold va lue, at a ra te of 5.5 per cen t. Comme r- cial imports and exports of articles con ta in ing gold are sub ject to the general foreign trade regu la t ions and in p rac t ica l ly all cases are l ibe ra l ized. Changes during 1976 In addition to the changes listed below, cer ta in changes in qu an t i t a t ive impo rt regu la t ions were m a de in accordance w i th EEC dec is ions, d irec t ives, and regu la- t ion s; most of these related to textiles or to beef and veal. January 2. Import quotas for "sensitive" products f rom state t r ad ing coun t r ies were raised by 6 per cent in va lue terms. The average increase in quo t as for the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina was 36 per cen t. There had been no quota increases in 1975. January 27. The In te rm in is te r ial Committee on State Gua ran tees for Export Credit R i sks decided to reduce the proportion of in su red r isks that mu st be bo rne by the exporter h im s e l f. With imm e d i a te effec t, th is share was lowered for exporters and banks prov id ing suppliers' credit or tied buyers' loans f rom 20 per cent to 15 per cent for the commerc ial risk and f rom 15 per cent to 10 per cent for the po l i t ical r i sk. Second, a bank's share in the risk on tied buyers' loans could be lowered to 5 per cent, provided that th is reduced risk was not shared w i th the exporter or in su red th rough o ther chan- nels. Th ird, paymen ts to supp l ie rs in the case of tied buyers' loans for large projects were accelerated by syn ch ron i z ing them with deliveries (prev ious ly, this did not take place u n t il after the project went on stream or four years a f t er s ign ing of the c o n t r a c t ). January 21. The 52nd O rd inance Am e n d i ng the Impo rt List took effec t. It abolished de jure the l icens ing requirement for a pa r t icu lar type of yarn when imported from countries in Coun try List C. February 2. The F inance M i n i s t ry announ c ed the i n t e n t i on to subject all gold coins to va lue-added tax, thus end ing the exemp t ion for those recognized by the M in is try as legal tender. By the end of 1976, no action had been taken. March 75. France aga in suspended its p a r t i c ip a t ion in the Eu ropean common m a rg ins a r rangemen t. The Bundesbank suspended the official l im i ts for the French f ranc (Bundesbank Announcement No. 7001 /76 ). April 3. The Th ird Law Am e n d i ng the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law (Ma rch 29, 1976) came in to force. 196 Together w i th the 35th Ord inance Am e n d i ng the For- eign Trade and Paymen ts O rd inance (Ap r il 3, 1976 ), wh ich came in to force on Ap r il 4, th is leg is la t ion in t ro- duced an a n n u al r epo r t ing r equ i r em ent w i th respect to the level and compos i t ion of inwa rd and ou twa rd d irect inves tmen t. The amendmen ts to the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law dec lared domes t ic a f f i l i a t es and p l an ts of non res i- d en ts as we ll as fo r e ign a f f i l i a t es and p l an ts of res iden ts to be j u r i d i c a l ly i n d e p e n d e nt for purposes of the fo r- e ign t r ade and p aym en ts regu la t ion s. (Bunde sbank A n n o u n c em e nt No. 7004/76 of Ap r il 9 explained the s ign i f icance in te rms of the r em a i n i ng cap i tal controls to be th at domes t ic a f f i l i a t es and p l a n ts of non r e s id ent f i rms cou ld h en c e fo r th a cqu i re w i t h o ut l im i t a t i on domes- t ic secu r i t ies and money m a rk et paper whose acqu is i- t i on aga inst p aym ent r em a in ed sub ject to an app roval r equ i r em en t .) The amendmen ts also provided for the poss ib i l i ty of t rea t ing t rus teesh ip agreements and other j u r i d i c al acts be tween a non r e s id ent and a res ident m i d d l em an in the same m a n n er as those be tween non- res iden ts and res iden ts, e l im i n a t ed for EEC res iden ts the f o rm al l i c e n s i ng r equ i r em ent for l ibera l ized impor ts, provided the f ramewo rk for a f u r t h er s imp l if ica t ion of impo rt procedures, and mod if ied the penal provisions. April 27. The Bund e sb ank asked b anks to suspend the purchase of I t a l i an bankno tes in d e n om i n a t i o ns of Lit 50,000 and Lit 100,000. On Ju ly 14, the request was ex tended to notes of Lit 20,000. May 1. A revised B ank ing Law came in to force. Am o ng o ther th ings, it increased the powers of the Bund e sb ank and imposed s t r ic ter l icen s ing, l i q u i d i t y, and repo r t ing rules. May 7. Insurers of m a r ine risks established in other EEC countries could con t inue to unde rw r i te German bus iness o n ly if they had es tab l ished a b r an ch office in G e rm a ny by Ap r il 30. May 4. The Bundesbank decided to increase the m i n im um reserve ratios against banks' l iab i l i t ies to both residents and nonres iden ts by 5 per cent w i th effect from May 1, and by ano ther 5 per cent f rom J u ne 1. This ac t ion was expected to s ter i l ize about DM 4 b i l l ion. May 79. The 36th O rd inance Am e n d i ng the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Ord inance introduced the require- m ent of an impo rt con trol dec la ra t ion for impo r ts of ce r ta in g a rm en ts of I t a l i an or ig in. An a d d i t i o n al import dec la ra t ion r equ i r em ent for an t i c ip a t ed impo r ts of these i tems was in t roduced by the 54th O rd inance Am end ing the Import List of Ju ly 21. The measures were taken for impo rt su rve i l lance purposes. May 24. The 53rd Ord inance Am e n d i ng the Import List im p l em e n t ed the EEC controls over comp l iance w i th the EEC's textile agreements. It also liberalized de jure imports of 624 commodities that had previously been l ibe ra l ized de facto under the AMLA procedure; these were now inc luded in Coun t ry List C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 23. A Law on the Reo rgan iza t ion of the Ma rke t- ing O rgan iza t ion Agencies (MarktordnungssteUen) was enac ted. June 30. Fo l low ing the de jure im p o rt l i b e r a l i z a t i on of 624 commod i t ies on May 24, a new l ist of i tems liberalized de facto under the AMLA p rocedu re was pub l ished. It inc luded 24 i tems not p r ev iou s ly e l i g i b le for th at p rocedu re. July 22. The Bundesbank issued its A n n o u n c em e nt No. 8002 /76 conce rn ing the im p l em e n t a t i on of the r e p o r t i ng r e q u i r em e nt for i nw a rd and o u tw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e nt (see A p r il 3, a b o v e ). August 18. The Co rpo ra te Tax Law was amended. With e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1977 the tax of 24.56 per cent on d iv idends was rep laced by a w i t h h o l d i ng tax of 36 per cen t. October 18. An exchange ra te rea l ignment took place w i th in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r range- FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY men t. The cen tral rate was changed f rom DM 1 = SDR 0.310580 to DM 1 = SDR 0.316792. December 16. Foreign Trade C i rcu lar No. 30 /76 stated that the 57th Ord inance Amend ing the Import List wou ld come in to force on J a n u a ry 1, 1977. Sub- s t a n t i ve changes re la ted to tex t i les. Coun t ry Lists A and B were combined. December 17. The 32nd O rd inance Am end ing the Expo rt List (A n n ex AL to the Foreign Trade and Pay- men ts O rd inance) was issued. Among other th ings, the res t r ic t ions on exports of components and spare parts for clocks and wa tches were t e rm i n a t e d. December 22. The 37th O rd inance Am end ing the Foreign Trade and Payments O rd inance was issued. Among other th ing s, it in t roduced app roval requ i remen ts for ce r ta in insu rance transac t ions when involving a Rhodesian interest. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.450182 gram of fine gold per Ghana ian Cedi. Since February 15, 1973, however, the Bank of Ghana has dealt at an off ic ial rate of (2 1 = US$0.8696. The Bank of Ghana quotes rate for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and 17 other currencies; l on December 31, 1976 the Bank's selling rates were (Z 1.96 per <£ stg. 1 and <t 1.15 per US$1. Different effective exchange rates arise for certain export proceeds as a result of an export bonus scheme, and for certain import payments as a result of manda tory cash margin deposits against letters of credit. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghana ian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all cur- rencies, spot or fo rwa rd, but they do not ma in ta in fo r- eign exchange balances, receiving their requirements f rom the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the M in is try of Trade and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that Ministry, to prohibit, regulate, or license the import and export of all goods. Applications by the indu s t r ial sector and cer ta in state agencies for ind iv idual import licenses must be channeled through the appropr ia te m in is t ry or government agency for endorsement. App l ica t ions that have been endorsed by the competent m in i s t ry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Applica- tions by the commercial houses for the import of con- sumer and inves tment goods are submitted direct to the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism. The Controller of Impor ts and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program d rawn up by a technical com- mittee on imports which is supervised by the Import Allocation Commission on which the Bank of Ghana, va r ious ministries, the army, and the Chamber of Com- merce are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Impor ts. The Exchange Control Depa r tment of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted fore ign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries in the fo rmer Sterling Area may be made in cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Au thor- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 198 ized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts f r om residents of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, may be obtained in cedis f rom a Foreign Account, in s te r l ing f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transac t ions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts main- ta ined by the Bank of Ghana and /or the central or s ta te banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds f rom exports to countries with which Ghana does not have paymen ts agreements must be received in the currency of the impor t ing country (if that cur- rency is among the currenc ies quoted by the Bank of Gh an a) or in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche m a r k. Settlements w i th the Cen t ral Bank of West A f r i c an States ( for Ben in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gamb ia, Liberia, Ma l i, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made th rough the West A f r i c an Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries w i th in the fo rmer Sterling Area, other than Ghana, are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th authorized paymen ts by residents of Gh an a, w i th t r a n s f e rs f rom Foreign Accounts and f rom other Sterling Area Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Sterling Area countries, for t rans fe rs to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currenc ies. Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries out- side the fo rm er Sterling A rea, other than Rhodesia, with au thor ized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The open ing of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward paymen ts by residents of fo rmer Sterling Area countries, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other Foreign Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies, other than Rhode- sian cu r rency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies, other than Rhodes ian currency. - Ghana ma in ta ins such agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Egyp t, Romania, and Yugoslavia. The agreements with Cuba and Upper Volta are at present inopera t ive. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident accounts m a in t a in ed under the prov is ions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts.'1 These accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward payments by residents of fo rmer Sterling Area coun tr ies, w i th trans- fers f rom Foreign Accounts, w i th paymen ts received through the Bank of Ghana for se t t lemen ts w i th b i la te ral payments agreement coun tr ies, and w i th proceeds f r om sales of non-S ter l ing Area cu r renc ies, other than Rhode- sian cu r rency. They may be deb i ted for au thor ized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for t rans fe rs to other Official Accounts related to the same coun try, and for transfers to the related c lear ing account at the Bank Ghana. Blocked Accounts are non re s ident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive f u n ds that are not placed at the f ree disposal of non res iden ts, e.g., cer ta in types of cap i tal proceeds. These may be debited for au thor ized paymen ts i n c l u d i ng the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a) are not permitted. Impor ts of some goods are proh ib i ted; these in c lude v i r t u a l ly all textiles and tex t i le produc ts and ch i l led or f r o z en f ish. Impo r ts of ce r ta in goods also produced in Ghana, ce r ta in commod i t ies of a l u x u ry cha rac te r, and cer ta in goods deemed h a rm f ul to hea l th or pub l ic order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Impor ts. App l ica t ions for the impor ta t ion of items on the restricted l ist are no rma l ly not approved. Certain basic items such as rice and sugar, wh ich appear on the restricted list, may be impor ted on ly by the Logistics Comm i t t ee (E s sen t ial Commod i t ies Comm i t- tee ). There is an open gene ral l icen se wh ich pe rm i ts any impo r t er to impo rt f r e e ly f r om any c o u n t ry t r a de samples, personal or househo ld e f fec ts, sm a ll g i f t s, s ing le copies of pub l ica t ions, domestic pets, headloads of foods tuffs f rom ne ighbo r ing countries, fish caught by Ghana ian-owned vessels, and re impor ts. All other items require either a specific impo rt license or a special unnumb e r ed license.3 There is a l ist of comm e r c i al imports e l ig ib le for spec if ic licenses. Otherwise spec if ic import licenses a re issued on ly for i tems that a re con- sidered e s s en t i a l. C e r t a in im p o r ts a re ch ann e l ed th rough a bu lk p u r c h a s i ng comp any, the Gh ana P ro cu r em ent Agency, or ano ther pub l ic sector agency, the Ghana Na t ional T rad ing Co rpo ra t ion. All impo r ts of govern- ment depa r tmen ts and corporations n o rm a l ly must be made through the Ghana Supply Comm iss ion. Import licensing takes place w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of an annu al import p rog r am. Except for a id impo r t s, impo rt l icenses do not spec i fy the coun t ry f r om wh ich the c omm o d i ty has to be 3 Special u n n um b e r ed licenses may be issued whe re ev idence is pro- duced that no t r an s f er of fore ign exchange has been or will be involved. GHANA impo r ted, but they do specify whe ther p aym ent is to be made in convertible or inconver t ib le currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports f rom any payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that in su r an ce mu st be covered in Ghana. Exchange for p aym ent of approved impor ts is granted f r e e ly by the Bank of G h a n a, but ce r ta in arrears exist w i th respect to m a tu r ed 180-day t rade credits estab- l ished be fo re Feb rua ry 7, 1972. Impo r te rs are r equ i r ed to establish con f i rmed letters of credit th rough Ghana ian commercial banks when p lac ing orders, and v i r tua l ly all imports are made on a sight basis. Cash m a rg in deposits are prescribed on the open ing of letters of credit for v i r t u a l ly all categories of impo r ts. The rates app l icab le are nil for crude oil and fe r t i l ize rs; 25 per cent for i n d u s t r i al raw ma te r ia ls, chemicals, spare parts, d rugs and other med ical supp l ies, and b u i l d i ng ma te r ia ls; 50 per cent for mach ine ry, e q u i pm e nt ( i n c l u d i ng t ran s- port e q u i pm e nt other than au tomob i l e s ), and lub r ican ts; and 65 per cent for all other goods, inc lud ing private passenger automobiles. For imports va lued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., banks are forb idden to make payments a g a i n st a letter of c red it or a bank d r a ft un less the impo rt documen ts inc lude a Clean Report of Find- ings issued by the General Supe r in tendence Company L im i t e d, wh i ch inspec ts price, q u a l i t y, and q u a n t i ty in the c o u n t ry of o r ig in or sh ipmen t. A graduated license fee is payable on the c . i . f. amount of specific impo rt licenses issued for most commodities. The fee is levied at rates rang ing f rom 5 to 150 per cent. There is an impo rt levy of 10 per cent of the face v a lue of the goods described on any impo rt license. Payments for Invisibles A ll p a ym e n ts for inv is ib les r e q u i re specific approval of the Exchange Con t rol D ep a r tm ent of the Bank of G h a n a, and do c um e n t a ry ev idence mu st suppo rt a ll a p p l i c a t i o n s. Ce r ta in paymen ts and t r an s f e rs a re in a r rea rs. The f o l l ow i ng categories of paymen ts are no rma l ly au thor ized in connection w i th the impo r ta t ion of goods: ( 1) the t r a n s f er of no rmal bank charges payable to over- seas banke rs for import paymen ts, provided that the am o u nt of the bank charges and the b u y i ng comm iss ion comb in ed do not exceed 4 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue of the goods; and (2) the t r a n s f er of f u n ds to cover in te rest on b i l ls up to 6 per cent per a n n um. The pay- m e nt of b u y i ng comm i s s ion on impo r ts is not perm i t ted. Freight charges must be paid to the local sh ipp ing agen ts; the t r a n s f er of f u n ds to cover such charges is n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted, provided that the applications are proper ly documen ted. With few exceptions, insurance on all impo r ts sh ipped to Gh ana on f.o.b. or c. & f. te rms must be a r ranged in Ghana ian cu r rency with local i n s u r a n ce compan ies. R em i t t a n c es of income by n o n -G h a n a i an employees are n o rm a l ly l im i t ed to 40 per cent of the ir net annual 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA earnings, up to a maximum of 0 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least (I 1,000; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commitments outside Ghana, includ- ing leave expenses, travel for health purposes, educa- tion, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Expatriate employees in the mining and petroleum industries and in certain other industries are not affected by the limit of (2 3,000 and, fur thermore, are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of <t 3,000. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident companies are permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, profit transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by com- panies that are either foreign owned or owned or con- trolled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocations for tourist and busi- ness travel have been suspended. Travel allowances are determined by the Bank of Ghana in the light of the applicant's requirements. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to $ 100, provided that not more than the equivalent of (2 20 is taken in any one cur- rency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to (2 20. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, and Namibia (South West Afr ica) are prohibited. Exports to any destination of scrap of iron and steel also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board, and diamonds through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of ship- ment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external African currencies or convertible currencies may be granted an export bonus of 20 per cent of the cedi equivalent. This bonus is given on all products of Ghanaian origin, other than timber, cocoa and cocoa products, and all minerals and primary metals except 200 diamonds bought f r om local producers; in addition, the bonus is granted on timber and its derivatives and on fabricated metals, when exported to A f r ican countries. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f r om invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank. Under the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regulations, 1976 no visa or entry permit may be granted to travelers unless they have purchased in for- eign exchange f rom Ghana ian embassies abroad or on arr ival in Ghana vouchers corresponding to US$50 plus US$20 for each day of their stay in the country. For- eign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is prohibited with the exception that travelers may bring in up to (Z 20 in such banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board if it is to enjoy the facilities under the Capital Investments Decree, 1973 of Janua ry 9, 1973. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Investments approved under the Decree are guaranteed in principle the right to t ran s fer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, in i t ial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Decree stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fa ir compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. Government policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many economic activities. This policy is implemented primarily on the basis of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975 and the Ghanaian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975, both of April 24, 1975. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents who are private persons are not norma l ly granted foreign exchange for the acqu is i t ion of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transac t ions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not t rans fe r red abroad w i thout express permission. In respect of port- folio inves tmen ts, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. New borrow ing abroad is screened by the Pe rmanent Review Committee on Public Agree- ments, wh ich for p r iva te sector borrow ing relies on the recommenda t ions of the Bank of Gh an a. P r iva te import credits in excess of (? 100,000 for mach ine ry and equipment require approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and normally are limited to 60 days. Borrowing abroad by commercial banks requires the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. Gold Residents may hold and nego t ia te in Ghana gold obtained domestically by wash ing or m in ing according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic t ransac t ions in gold, as well as imports and expor ts, may be au tho- rized by the M in is try of Trade and Tourism in collabora- tion with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by perm it under the Gold M in ing Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, no Ghanaian resident other than an autho- rized dealer may buy or borrow any gold f r om, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an autho- rized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities are not norma l ly licensed; imports for industrial use are very small, a specified commercial bank be ing the sole impor ter. The import duty on bullion and par t ly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefined form. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of (2 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1976 January 1. A new import program was introduced. The Import Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism projected a "minimum" import pro- gram for the economy at 0 900 million. Simultaneously an operational program was fo rmu la ted, based on projected fore ign exchange availabilities, prepared by the Bank of Ghana. The initial allocation under the operational program amounted to C 535 million. Leaving aside priority sectors such as oil and lubricants, mining operations, the cocoa and t imber industries, and GHANA tou r i sm, the nonpr ior i ty sectors were allocated between 45 per cent and 75 per cent of their projected require- ments under the "maximum" program. January 5. The Bank of Ghana announced that it would release fo re ign exchange to the commercial banks for the payment of import bills due for payment in November and December 1971. January 9. It was announced that in exceptional cases where letters of credit had been opened or, in the case of goods on collection, where approval to effect payment had been given by the Bank of Ghana, imports might be brought in to Ghana under 1975 licenses. Where letters of credit had been established and fo re ign sup- pliers under took to ship the goods in question by March 31, the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism was empowered on application to issue 1976 licenses against the importer's allocation for 1976. January 30. The Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regu la t ions, 1976 were published. These provided that no visa or en try permit could be granted to travelers unless they purchased in foreign exchange a voucher of not less than US$50 in value (or such additional am o u nt as the Bank of Gh ana might de te rm ine ). Travelers were requ i red to purchase vouchers corres- pond ing to US$50 plus US$20 for each day of their stay in Ghana. March 26. The import of certain intravenous in fu- sions and solutions was banned. April 2. The list of businesses reserved for Ghana ian ownership under the Business Promotion Act, 1970 was extended to cover pr in t ing, garment manu fac tu r ing, screen p r in t ing, tire re tread ing, real estate agencies, t ravel agencies, and lighterage services. April 12. Imports of chilled and frozen fish were prohibited. April 28. The bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th Gu inea was te rm ina ted. July 1. The bilateral paymen ts a r rangement between the Bank of Ghana and a commercial bank in Benin ceased to be operative on the setting up of the West A f r ican Clearing House. July 21. An amendment to the Customs and Excise Tar iff Regulations reduced the duty on imported pas- senger automobiles f rom 50 per cent to 40 per cent. July 30. The Government imposed an import levy of 10 per cent of the face value of the goods specified on all import licenses to be issued. August 25. The Na t ional Procurement Agency was established. September 3. Res tr ic t ions were imposed on fu r ther inves tment in a wide range of indu s t r ial under tak ings, including those manu fac tu r ing textiles, leather, plastics, and metals, and certain categories of electrical goods and vehicle assembly plants. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma, and Greece has established a central rate of Dr 30 = US$1. On October 19, 1973, however, Greece announced that it would not for the time being ensure that the rates for the drachma would be kept within the margins hitherto observed, and since March 8, 1975 the drachma has been pegged to a weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1976 the Bank of Greece (the central bank) quoted official rates for the U.S. dollar of Dr 36.661 buy ing and Dr 37.401 selling, per US$1.1 The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Rates for other currencies are determined daily on the basis of the official limits for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Greece offers for- ward exchange cover in U.S. dollars only. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministries of Finance and Commerce and the Currency Committee. Exchange control policy is made by the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the For- eign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements, and import policy is made by the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Min- istry of Commerce, and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements relating to per- mitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified invisible transac t ions. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. 1 In addition to the U.S. dollar, the Bank of Greece ma in ta ins offi- cial quotations for Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, No rw eg i an kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. It also quotes banknote rates for var ious fo re ign currencies. ~ Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements w i th Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled th rough special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. 202 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be cred- ited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized paymen ts by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current trans- actions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums w i thdrawn. At the end of 1976, the max imum rate of interest on such accounts was 1.5 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a m in imum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; inter- est rates on the deposits range between 5.5 and 7 per cent per a n n um, according to their term. Particular regula- tions apply to nonresident investors (including Greek nationals pe rmanen t ly residing abroad) enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see sec- tion on Capital, below). They may establish time deposits, for a m in imum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, according to their term, and principal and interest are freely transferab le at ma tu r i ty in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must under certain conditions be declared, and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked accoun t, as must certain income accru ing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 for each month of the visitor's stay in Greece, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1973; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, f rom accounts opened after Janua ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively f rom rents. Other amoun ts of balances on blocked accounts may be trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All t rans fe rs between blocked accounts requ ire prior app rova l. Blocked balances may be deposited w i th a commerc ial b a n k, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations oper- ating abroad may establish, w i th f u n ds o r ig ina t ing abroad, conver t ib le fo re ign currency accounts w i th au thor ized b anks in Greece. M e r ch ant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, pro- vided that the funds or ig ina te abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through the in te rmed ia ry of a sh ipp ing firm established in Greece. At the end of 1976, ba lances on these accoun ts earned interest at 3 per cent per a n n um for s ight deposits, up to 11 per cent per a n n um for t ime deposits, and 7.5-8 per cent per a n n um for sav ings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, inc lud ing accrued interest, are free ly convertible in to fo re ign exchange as long as the ho lder con t inues to wo rk abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years th e r e a f t e r. Somewhat s im i l ar f a c i l i t i es for fo r e ign currency accoun ts exist u n d er a H o u s i ng Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All other impo r ts (except those of goods on Lists F and P w i th an invo ice v a l ue c . i .f. of the e q u i v a l e nt of US$300 or less for wh ich pay- ment w i ll be made th rough an au tho r i z ed b a n k) r e q u i re approval. For most impor ts, prior approval is requ ired; however, for cer ta in commod i t ies, m a i n ly m a ch in e ry and raw ma ter ia ls, impor ts may be effected w i thout prior app rova l, prov ided that app roval is ob ta ined subse- quen t ly. The g r a n t i ng of an impo rt app rov al im p l i es that app rop r i a te f o r e i gn exchange w i ll be m ade av a i l ab l e. Apa rt f r om impo r ts for wh ich special l icenses a re requ ired, two general impo rt procedures (E and D) are applicable to impo r ts, m a i n ly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an au thor ized bank is requ ired ( 1) for impo r ts f r om c o u n t r i es p rev ious ly p a r t i c i p a t i ng in the Eu rop e an M o n e t a ry Ag r e em ent wh en payment is to be made in a conv e r t ib le or e x t e r n a l ly convertible European cu r rency; (2) for impo r ts f r om Canada or the Un i ted States when p aym ent is to be made in f ree do l lars, i .e ., not on the basis of procure- ment a u t h o r i z a t i o ns u n d er U.S. a id; and (3) for impo r ts f rom c o u n t r i es w i th wh i ch Greece has conc luded b i l a t- eral p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w h en p a ym e nt is to be made through the r e l e v a nt c l e a r ing accoun t. No license is necessary under procedure E, but impo rt app l ica t ions which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered w i th the Bank of Greece. Und er procedure D, an impo rt app rov al issued by the Bank of Greece is required for im p o r ts f inanced by U.S. a id, for impo r ts other t h an those covered by p rocedu re E, for ce r ta in GREECE imports effected for the account of the State, and for impor ts for which the impor ter requests changes in the general prov is ions conce rn ing the terms of sh ipmen t, method of settlement, te rms of p aym en t, etc. Import approvals must be obtained prior to sh ipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are only required for imports of com- modities in List A ( i n c l u d i ng gold, silver, precious stones, jewe l ry, f u r s, pe r fume s, textiles, au tomob i les and parts, te lev is ion receivers, and ce r ta in f o o d s t u f f s) and List B ( c e r t a in types of m a c h i n e ry and spare p a r t s ). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restric- t ive ly, but for others they are issued au toma t ica l ly. Spe- cial regulations govern imports of petroleum products s im i l ar to those produced by Greek refineries and impo r ts of c e r t a in other items, such as goods under monopo ly con tro l, med ic ine s, narco t ics, wheat and flour, s u l f u r, and mo t ion-p ic ture films, as well as barter t ransac t ions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of app ly ing regulations concern ing pay- men ts for impo r ts and advance deposit r equ i r em en t s, a ll p r iva te impo r ts are classified in s ix l is ts (F, F-50/1-2, F-1007 1-2, and P)/"' Paymen ts for impo r ts may be made by le t ter of credit, by cash against sh ipp ing documents, or by acceptance,of t ime d ra f ts (which is permitted on ly for goods in List P, there being no t ime l im it for this l i s t ). The M i n i s t ry of Commerce may au thor ize longer p a ym e nt periods and may also approve deferred pay- men ts for impo r ts not in c lud ed in List P. When t ime d ra f ts are accepted, a personal w r i t t en u n d e r t a k i ng am o u n t i ng to 4 per cent of the amount of the d ra ft is requ ired as a guarantee that the payment w i ll be made w i t h in the prescribed t ime l im i t s. When a letter of credit is opened, the impo r t er is r equ i r ed to depos it in d rachmas the who le am o u nt of the c r ed it w i th the i n t e r v e n i ng b a n k. In a d d i t i o n, for those impo r ts inc luded in List F-100/1 a f u r t h er cash deposit of 40 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue is required as security for impo rt duties and other taxes. For impor ts under p rocedu re E, this deposit mu st be made when the impo rt app roval is ob ta ined; for impo r ts u n d er procedure D, the deposit mu st be made w i t h in 20 days of the impo rt approva l. Advance deposits are not requ ired for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When paymen ts for impo r ts are to be made aga in st sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are r equ i r ed for p r iva te impo r ts inc luded in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2.4 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c . i . f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment requ ired when a p p l y i ng for an impo rt approval and an advance ( s e c u r i t y) ag a in st impo rt du t ies and other taxes. Secu- :: Of these six l i s t s, Lists F and P are those con t a in ing all imports t h at a re not sub ject to special p aym en ts or deposit regu la t ion s. 4 The to tal deposit r e q u i r ed for used automobiles for p r iva te use, wh i ch are not inc luded in any of these lists or in Lists F or P, is 150 per cen t. No depos i ts are r e q u i r ed for goods in Lists F and P. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE r i ty deposits, however, are not requ i red for cap i tal goods and spare par ts that a re exempt f r om impo rt d u ty by v i r tue of the laws gove rn ing inve s tment of f o r e i gn or domestic cap i ta l. The rates of deposit at the end of 1976 for each l ist of impo r ts are set out below. Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 70 28 11 .2 39.2 100 40 140 56 22.4 78.4 L i s t F - 5 0 /1 L is tF -50 /2 List F-100/1 L i s tF - 1 0 0 /2 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance aga inst impo rt duties and other taxes is reduced. When impo r ts are f inanced w i th U.S. aid f u n d s, a f u r t h er deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank gua ran tee and in f avor of the Greek State, in a d d i t i on to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made w i th the in te rven ing bank (1) at the t ime the im p o rt approval is obtained, for impo r ts und er procedure E, and (2) w i th in 10 days ( f or A thens and the P i raeus a r e a) or 20 days ( f or the p rov in c e s) of o b t a i n i ng the im p o rt app rova l, for impor ts under procedure D. U p on de l ivery of the sh ipp ing documen ts, the impo r te r 's bank issues a perm it for the customs c learance of the goods, and advance deposits are re funded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-10071-2, the deposits must be retained by the commerc ial bank for a period of two to four months f rom the date on which they were made. The bank rece iv ing the deposit m u st redeposit it w i th the Bank of Greece. Cer ta in compan ies, pub l ic agencies, and o rgan iza t ions that have been designated pub l ic service i n s t i t u t i o ns are exempt f rom the advance deposit requ i remen t s. Advance paymen ts may be made to fo r e ign supp l ie rs for a ll impo r ts aga inst de l ivery of sh ipp ing documen ts or aga inst a letter of unde r tak ing issued by a fo re ign bank. Special regu la t ions govern impo r ts by state agen- cies, public en t i t ies, and public u t i l i ty companies. Except for goods in List P, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped w i th in six mon ths and a r r ive in Greece w i th in n ine mon ths a f ter the date of import approval. Final settlement of the va lue of impor ted goods mu st take place w i t h in 60 days fo l low- ing the date of a r r i v al at the f irst Greek por t; howeve r, se t t lement mu st take place w i t h in 120 days f o l l ow i ng the date of a r r iv al for goods in L ist P. Most impor ts are subject to a s t amp tax of 2 —6 per cent of the c . i . f. du ty -pa id and tax -pa id v a lu e. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les requ i re app rova l, but th is is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transac t ions and for certain other transactions. 204 Residents go ing abroad for f am i ly reasons, tou r i st t r av e l, or bus iness are en t i t led to the equ iv a l ent of US$250 for one t r ip a yea r; ins tead of this a l lowance, tou r i s ts p a r t i c i p a t i ng in g roup tours a re granted an am o u nt based on a cost dec la ra t ion subm i t ted by the t r av el agency. Reques ts for la rger am o u n ts or for other types of t ravel are subm i t ted to the Foreign Exchange Subcomm i t tee for F inanc ial Requirements. It does not g rant add i t ional fo re ign exchange for tour ist t rave l, but it n o rm a l ly provides fore ign exchange for other travel as fo l low s: up to US$2,000 a t r ip for exporters; up to US$1,700 a t r ip for indu s t r ia l i s ts and hotel managers; up to US$500 a t r ip for other bu s in e s sm en; up to US$500 a t r ip for newspaper ed i to rs and t ravel agents; up to US$800 a t r ip for sc ien t i s ts a t t e n d i ng i n t e r n a t i o n al mee t ing s; and up to US$400 a t r ip for new spaper repor t- ers. For med ical t r e a tm e nt abroad it prov ides any am o u nt for t r a n s f er d i rect to a fo r e ign ho sp i ta l, or up to US$1 ,200 wh ich the p a t i ent may take ou t. It also prov ides up to US$320 a m o n th for s tud ies in the Un i ted States and Canada and up to US$250 a mon th for s tud ies in o ther fore ign coun tr ies ( f or postgraduate s tud ies, up to US$375 and US$330, respec t ive ly ). Persons t r av e l ing abroad may take w i th them a max i- mum of Dr 750 in Greek bankno tes. Greek nationals, not i n c l u d i ng those res ident abroad, are requ ired to dec la re a ll dome s t ic and fo r e ign b ankno t es and other v a l u a b l es t ak en w i th them upon l e a v i ng Greece. Non- re s ident t rave le rs on l e a v i ng Greece may f r e e ly take w i th them up to US$500 in fo r e ign b ankno t es declared u p on e n t r y, prov ided that d e p a r t u re is w i t h in s ix mon ths of a r r i v a l; the export of la rger am o u n ts or any export a f t er a v i s it of more th an six mon ths is sub ject to gen- e ral or spec i f ic app rova l. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodes ia are p roh ib i t ed. A ll exports r equ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses, but most expor ts are f ree of q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i t a t i o n. Expo rt proceeds must be sur- rendered w i t h in 180 days f r om the da te of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the au tho r i t ies are empowered to ex tend t h is period up to two years for m a n u f a c t u r es and up to one year for o ther commod i t ies. The M in i s t ry of Commerce may license ba r ter t ran sac- t ions i n v o l v i ng the export of tobacco, ce r ta in types of f r u i t, or w ines; such transac t ions are perm i t ted w i th Bul- gar ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, I r an, Israel, Po land, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R.; in practice, how- ever, such bar ter transac t ions have ceased. In addition, any commod i ty may, sub ject to i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion by the B a nk of Greece, be exported on a ba r ter basis to A l b a n i a, the People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, the Repub l ic of C h i n a, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts represen t ing paymen ts for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are exempt f r om the su r r end er r equ i r em en t, but s h i p­ owners have to pay f or supp l ie s, repa i r s, etc ., and any taxes a nd fees, a nd must c o v er th e ir d isbu rsemen ts and expenses in G r e e ce in l o c al c u r r e n cy o b t a i n ed t h r o u gh the sale of f o r e i gn exchange to the B a nk of G r e e c e. T r a v e l e rs m ay b r i ng in a m a x i m um of Dr 750 in G r e ek b ankno t e s. A ny su rp lus is depo s i ted in a b l o c k ed account w i th the B a nk of G r e e c e; subject to p r i or a p p r o v al by the B a n k, the su rp lus m ay be t ak en out on depar ture or spent in G r e e ce on pe r sonal f i n a n c i al requ i remen ts. G r e ek res iden ts r e t u r n i ng to G r e e ce must declare the f o r e i gn exchange in th e ir possess ion if they w i sh to take it out for the next j o u r n e y. N o n r e s i d e nt travelers of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty m ay im p o rt any amount of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a nd need not dec la re it at the t ime of en te r ing the c o u n t r y, and non res iden ts h o l d i ng G r e ek passports are r e q u i r ed to dec la re th e ir fo r e ign exchange on ly if they i n t e n d, w h en l e a v i ng G r e e c e, to take out again fo r e ign exchange in excess of U S $ 5 00 or its equ iva len t. Capital C o m m e r c i al banks a nd inves tment banks may freely bo r row c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i es a b r o a d, p r o v i d ed that they lend c o r r e s p o n d i ng amoun ts as fo r e ign c u r r e n cy loans for pe r iods of at least five years to p r o d u c t i ve en terpr ises established in G r e e c e. A ll o ther inves tmen ts in G r e e ce by non res iden ts are subject to a p p r o v a l. S u ch a p p r o v al is au toma t ic for purchases of r e al estate for pe r sonal use. U n d er L e g i s l a t i ve D e c r ee N o. 2 6 8 7 / 5 3, a p p r o v ed fo r­ eign inves tmen ts w h i ch a im at the p r om o t i on of n a t i o n al p rodu c t ion or o the rw i se c o n t r i b u te to the e c o n om ic advancement of G r e e ce m ay be g ran ted p r e f e r en t i al t rea tmen t .5 U n d er L aw N o. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, as am end ed by Leg i s la t ive D e c r ee N o. 4 2 5 6 / 6 2, by L e g i s l a t i ve D e c r ee N o. 916 of J u ly 14, 1 9 7 1, and by L aw N o. 159 of September 9, 1975, fu r ther p r iv i leges are p r o v i d ed for fore ign c a p i t al p a r t i c i p a t i ng in inves tment projects in G reece ex c e ed ing Dr 90 m i l l i on in v a l u e. M o r e o v e r, Leg i s la t ive D e c r ee N o. 4 2 5 6 / 62 p rov id es a d d i t i o n al repa t r ia t ion f a c i l i t i es for fo re ign inves tmen ts w h i ch p r o­ mote expo r t s. R e p a t r i a t i on f a c i l i t i es are as f o l l ow s: ( 1) A p p r o v ed investments a c c o r d i ng to the p r o v i s i o ns of the l eg i s l a t ion men t ioned above m ay not be r ep a t r i a t ed before one year from the date the en te rp r ise begins to ope ra te p r o­ duc t ive ly a nd in no case be fo re one y e ar f r om the date the c ap i t al was im p o r t e d. ( 2) T he r e p a t r i a t i on of fo r­ eign c a p i t al m ay not exceed 10 per cent a y e ar of the amount of c a p i t al im p o r t e d. T he r e p a t r i a t i on of d i v i­ dends on e q u i ty c a p i t al a nd of interest on l o an c a p i t al may not exceed 12 per cent a y e ar a nd 10 per cent a year, r e sp e c t iv e ly. ( 3) U n d er the p r o v i s i o ns of L aw N o. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, profits on a p p r o v ed f o r e i gn inves tmen ts 5 This Decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. GREECE m ay be t r an s f e r r ed a b r o ad in amoun ts not e x c e e d i ng 6 per cent a year of the repa t r ia ted p o r t i on of the c a p i­ t a l, p r o v i d e d, how ev e r, that the amount of profits t rans­ fe r red sh a ll not exceed 8 per cent of the f o r e i gn exchange ea rn ings of the en te rp r ise f r om the sale of its p roduc ts a b r o a d. ( 4) F or inves tmen ts made u n d er L e g i s­ l a t ive D e c r ee N o. 2 6 8 7 / 53 that are not c o v e r ed by L aw N o. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, the t rans fer of profits is r e l a t ed to the r e s idu al c a p i t al r em a i n i ng in G r e e c e, a nd the t rans fer p r iv i l ege exp i res as soon as a ll c a p i t al has been r e p a t r i­ a ted. ( 5) U n d er the p r o v i s i o ns of L e g i s l a t i ve D e c r ee N o. 4 2 5 6 / 6 2, the r e p a t r i a t i on of c a p i t al and profits of fo re ign inves tmen ts a p p r o v ed u n d er the p r o v i s i o ns of L e g i s l a t i ve D e c r ee N o. 2 6 8 7 / 53 c an exceed the rates spec i f ied in ( 2) above, up to 70 per cent of the f o r e i gn exchange ea rn ings of the en te rp r ise f r om the sale of its p roduc ts a b r o a d. A l s o, fo r e ign loans a p p r o v ed und er L e g i s l a t i ve D e c r ee N o. 2 6 8 7 / 53 c an be r ep a t r i a t ed at an a n n u al rate of up to 20 per cen t, p r o v i d ed that the amount of the l o an does not exceed doub le the v a lue of the share c a p i t al and that the amoun ts r ep a t r i a t ed do not exceed 70 per cent of the fo r e ign exchange ea rn ings of the c o r p o r a t i o n. D e v i a t i o ns f r om the gene ral regu la t ions m ay be a p p r o v ed for fo r e ign c a p i t al im p o r t ed to d e v e l op expo r ts of a g r i c u l t u r al and m i n i ng p roduc ts or inves ted in en ter­ prises of sp e c i al im p o r t a n ce to the e c o n om y. Spec i f ied fo r e ign sho r t - t e rm inves tment m ay a lso be g ran ted pref­ e r en t i al t rea tment in respect of the r e p a t r i a t i on of c a p i­ tal and the t rans fer of in teres t. T r an s f e rs of c a p i t al a b r o ad by res iden ts r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. T he pu rchase a b r o ad of secu r i t ies or of r e al estate for pe r sonal use is not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t e d. Gold Re s iden ts m ay f ree ly pu rchase spec if ied g o ld co ins (m a i n ly sove re ign s) f r om the B a nk of G r e e c e, t h r o u gh l i c en s ed s t o c k b r o k e r s, at p r ices set by the c e n t r al b a n k; pu rchase rs must s ign a s ta tement to the effect that the co ins w i ll o n ly be r e s o ld to the B a nk of G r e e ce or to l icen sed s t o c k b r o k e r s. H o l d e rs of g o ld co ins a c q u i r ed in the free m a r k et that ex is ted p r i or to D e c em b er 2 2, 1965 m ay se ll these a n o n ym o u s ly a nd w i t h o ut f o rm a l i ty o n ly to the B a nk of G r e e ce or to an a u t h o r i z ed b ank a nd at the o f f ic ial p r i c e. Re s iden ts m ay deal f ree ly, how ev e r, in b u l l i o n. Impo r ts of g o ld aga inst payment in fo r e ign exchange are on Im p o rt L i s ts A and F and r equ i re a spec ial l icense issued by the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e; l icenses are n o rm a l ly issued to repu tab le impo r t e rs f or d i s t r i b u t i on to r e c o g n i z ed users, su ch as jewe le rs a nd den t is ts. G o ld bars a nd g o ld co ins m ay be im p o r t ed free ly by c omm e r c i al b anks a nd o th er res iden ts as w e ll as non res iden ts w h en no p aym ent in fo r e ign exchange is i n v o l v e d. E x p o r ts of g o ld o ther than by the B a nk of G r e e ce are not a p p r o v ed w i th the e x c e p t i on that g o ld bars or co ins b r o u g ht in by t rave le rs a nd d e c l a r ed u p on en t ry may, w i th the p r i or a p p r o v al of the B a n k 's C r e d it S u b c omm i t t e e, be r e - expo r t ed by the same p e r son. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Changes during 1976 January I. The M in is t ry of Trade abolished impo rt List F-200, wh ich inc luded those goods subject to an advance impo rt deposit requ i rement of 200 per cent. These goods, m a i n ly passenger cars, rad io and television receivers, and wines, liquors, and soft dr inks, were re turned to the categories they were inc luded in before J u ne 30, 1975. January 1. The M i n i s t ry of Trade decided to free meat impo r ts en t i re ly. March L The Bank of Greece au tho r ized comme rc ial banks to g rant fo re ign exchange w i thout approval for a l im i ted list of items, up to US$200. May 5. An agreement w i th B raz il was ra t i f ied pu t t ing paymen ts on a convertible cu r rency basis. June 22. A var ie ty of taxes on imported passenger cars, except for impo rt du ty, were replaced by a com- prehensive consumer tax based on the e n g i ne capac i ty and price of the vehicle. July 1. Imports of television receiver sets were put on a quota basis. July 2. B raz il ratified the t rade agreement signed on September 6, 1975. This action term ina ted the provi- s ional t rade and paymen ts agreement of 1960. As a re su l t, s e t t l em en ts be tween Greece and B raz il were placed on a conve r t ib le cu r rency basis. July 8. The Greek Pa r l iament approved legislation on a n t i d um p i ng levies and coun te rva i l ing du t ies. It w i ll a p p ly if impo r ts are e i ther dumped or proved to have been subs id ized at any po int in the ir p roduc t ion or sale. This leg i s la t ion entered in to force on Ju ly 27. July 20. The M i n i s t ry of Trade l if ted a ban on exports of flour, wh ich had been in force for many years. August 1. The impo rt of f rozen and ch i l led meat was p roh ib i t ed, except when destined for the a rmed forces. November 5. Impor ts of certain electric light bulbs o r i g i n a t i ng in the R epub l ic of Ch ina or Korea were barred as were impor ts of porcelain tab lewa re and house- ho ld u t e n s i ls f rom A s i an sources gene ra l ly. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The unit of currency is the East Caribbean Dollar l issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. A central rate has been established of EC$2.70 = US$1. The Currency Authority quotes daily dealing rates for Canadian dollars and pounds sterling. There is no cen- tral bank. On December 31, 1976, the banks' buying and sel- ling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6848 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1, and those for sterling were EC$4.5503 and EC$4.6480, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the M in is ter of F inance, Trade, and Industry. The M in is try delegates to au thor ized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. Although the exchange control regulations require that all foreign exchange should norma l ly be su r rende red to an authorized dealer, there is no mechan ism to en fo rce the su r render require- ment. The no rmal exchange con trol d irec t ives do not apply to transac t ions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South Afr ica. Trade controls also are administered by the M in is t ry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the cu r rency of the CAR ICOM coun t ry concerned. Settlements w i th residents of the fo rm er Sterling Area coun t r ies other than member coun tr ies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) may be made in sterling, in any other fo rmer Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and f rom External Accounts. Settlements w i th residents of coun- tries ou ts ide the f o rm er S ter l ing Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any fo re ign cu r r en cy:i or through an Ex te rnal Account in East Car ibbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts Ex ternal Accounts may be opened for non re s iden ts by authorized dealers w i t h o ut re fe rence to the M in i s t ry of Finance, Trade, and Indu s t ry. These accoun ts are m a in- tained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited 1The East Caribbean do l lar is also the cu r r en cy of A n t i g u a, Domi- nica, M o n t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. L u c i a, and S t. V i n c e n t. 2 The CAR ICOM coun t r ies a re A n t i g u a, B a rb ado s, Be l ize, Dom in ica, G renada, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, S t. K i t t s -N ev i s -Angu i l l a, S t. Lucia, S t. V incen t, and T r in idad and Tobago. 3 Foreign cu r renc ies comp r ise a ll c u r r e n c i es o ther t h an the East Caribbean dollar. w i th proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign currencies, with t r an s f e rs f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts), and with pay- ments by residents for which general or specific permis- sion has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of fore ign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license from all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported f rom CARICOM countries. Paymen ts for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen tary evidence ( invo ices and customs wa r ran t s) to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry; however, the Ministry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports originating in CARICOM countries. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the M i n i s t ry of Finance, Trade, and Indus try. Impor ts not exempt f rom customs du ty are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les require exchange control app rova l. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of fore ign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to EC$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$4,000 a person for business t rave l ), subscriptions to magaz ines and periodicals, and l i fe insurance pre- m iums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amoun ts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation no rma l ly are approved by the Ministry of F inance, Trade, and Indus t ry, provided that no unau tho r ized t r an s f er of capital seems to be involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$ 1,500 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transpor ta t ion to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Residents t rave l ing to any destination outside Grenada may take out fore ign currency notes and coins up to the equ iva lent of EC$ 1,500 and East Caribbean cur- rency notes without l im i t. Nonresident travelers may free ly export any foreign currency previously brought in, as well as any amount in East Caribbean currency notes. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted, and specific licenses are requ ired for the export of certain goods to any de s t ina t ion. There are no fo rmal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in fo re ign currencies are surrendered w i th in a certain period f rom the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is manda tory. Export du t ies are levied on bananas, cocoa, and nu tmeg. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the fo re ign cu r rency proceeds f rom invisibles is manda to ry. Travelers to G r en ada may b r ing in freely notes and coins denom ina ted in East Car ibbean dollars or in any fore ign currency. Capital All ou tward cap i tal t ran s fe rs requ i re exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by res iden ts of foreign cur- rency securities and of real estate s i tua ted abroad for private purposes are not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Cer t if ica tes of t i t le to fore ign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in G renada and earn ings on these securities must be repa tr ia ted. Personal capital t rans fe rs, such as inhe r i tances to non- residents, require exchange control approva l, which no rma l ly is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash g i f ts (EC$250 a person a yea r) and for em ig ra t ion purposes. The M in is ter of Finance, Trade, and Indus try w i ll also consider app l ica t ions f rom fo re ign na t iona ls who have resided in G renada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare the ir assets held in Grenada. Direct inves tment in Grenada by non res iden ts may be made w i th exchange control approva l. The rem i t tance of earn ings on, and l i q u i d a t i on proceeds f rom, such inves tment is permitted, subject to the submission of documen ta ry evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the inves tmen t, and to the reg is tra t ion of the or ig inal inves tment with the M in i s t ry of Finance, Trade, and Indus try. Nonres iden ts may acqu ire in G renada real estate for p r iva te purposes w i th f u n ds f rom foreign cu r rency sources; local cu r rency f i n a n c i ng is not ordi- n a r i ly pe rm i t ted. The repa t r ia t ion of the proceeds f rom the rea l iza t ion of such inves tmen ts equ iva lent to the amount of fore ign cu r rency b rought in requires the approval of the M in is try of F inance, Trade, and Industry. The approval of the M in i s t ry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for non re s iden ts to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may f ree ly assume short- te rm l iab i l i ty positions in fo re ign currenc ies for the f inanc- ing of approved t ran s fe rs in respect of both trade and non t rade t ran sac t ion s. They may also f ree ly accept deposits f r om non res iden ts. Any borrow ing abroad by au tho r ized dealers to f in an ce the ir domestic opera t ions requires the approval of the M i n i s t r y. Gold Res iden ts who are p r iva te persons are pe rm i t ted to acqu i re and hold gold coins for n um i sm a t ic purposes only. Res iden ts other th an the mone ta ry au thor i t ies, au thor ized dealers, and i n d u s t r i al users are not perm i t ted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Imports of gold are perm i t ted for i n d u s t r i al purposes only and are subject to cus toms du t ies and charges. Licenses to impo rt gold are issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance, Trade, and Indu s t ry. The export of gold is not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Changes during 1976 January. Act No. 39 of 1976 imposed a s tamp du ty on impor ts. For goods not exempt f rom customs du ty the new d u ty was 5 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue on each set of customs bills of entry inwa rd. April 23. A notice was gazetted l is t ing all goods subject to ind iv idual import licenses. It did not en ta il any subs tan t ive changes in l icen s ing requ i remen ts. July 7. The East Car ibbean do l lar was repegged from s te r l ing to the U.S. dollar. A cen tral ra te of EC$2.70 = US$1 was established, correspond ing to the cross rate between the pound s ter l ing and the U.S. dollar preva i l ing on June 30, 1976. Previously, a fixed re la t ionsh ip of EC$4.80 = £ stg. 1 was m a i n t a i n e d. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.736662 g ram of fine gold per Gua tema lan Quetzal, correspond ing to Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buy ing, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Gua tema la quotes exchange rates for certain other currenc ies 1 on the basis of their rates ma in ly in the New York ma rke t. On Janua ry 27, 1947, Gua tema la no t if ied the Fund that it was prepared to fo rm a l ly accept the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange con t rol but all inw a rd and out- ward t rans fe rs are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Gua tema la. Foreign exchange t ransac t ions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua tema la; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks appointed by the Mone tary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments between Gua tema la and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Hondu ras, and N ica ragua are no rma l ly made in the currenc ies of the countries concerned through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Cen- tral America to foster the process of economic in tegra- tion of their countries. There are no obligations pre- scribing the currency for payments to and f rom other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, lead, poultry, wheat flour, basic food grains, and cottonseed. Imports f r om all sources of coffee beans, coffee p lan ts, and tallow are prohibited. Imports from Honduras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely and in any currency. Imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, deu tsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese y e n, N e th e r l ands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss francs. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for and pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. All in terna t ional air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and nonresi- dents may freely b r ing in or take out any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes and other means of pay- men t. The export of gold and silver coins, however, is prohibited (unless the Bank of Gua tema la issues a spe- cial export l icense ), with the exception that travelers may take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in fore ign countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a number of items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inward or ou tward capital t rans fe rs by residents or non- residents. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Gu a t em a la requ ires the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Economy. Inves tment in the pe tro leum sector is gov- erned by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Gua tema la is obliged to purchase all gold o f fe red to it, either d irec t ly or th rough the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or indus tr ial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Gua tema la issues a special export license. Gold is imported on ly by the Bank of Guate- mala. Changes during 1976 January 1. By v i r tue of M in is try of Economy Order No. 113 of December 31, 1975, prior au tho r iza t ion was required for exports of certain food products, cotton- seed, t imber, and cement. September L Transactions in Mexican pesos were suspended. They were resumed on October 10, sus- pended again on November 22, and resumed on Decem- ber 13. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par v a lue or cen t ral ra te for the cu r rency of the R epub l ic of Gu inea has been es tab l ished w i th the Fund. The u n it of cu r rency is the Sy l i, defined as a mone- t a ry u n it c o n t a i n i ng 0.036 g ram of f ine gold. Since J u ne 1975 exchange rates have been de te rm ined on the basis of the r e l a t i o n s h ip GS 24.6853 = S D R 1. On December 31, 1976, the ra te for the U.S. do l l ar was GS 21.438 per US$1; a ll t r an s a c t ions under b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts were se t t led at GS 20.46 = US$1. The Central Bank of the Repub l ic of Gu inea also quotes rates for ce r ta in other currencies .1 Administration of Control Exchange con t rol a u t h o r i ty is vested in the C en t r al B ank of the Repub l ic of G u i n e a, wh ich is u n d er the d i r e ct sup e rv i s ion of the P res idency of the R epub l i c. The B ank has not delegated any of its exchange con t rol powers to any other b ank or i n s t i t u t i o n. A ll se t t lemen ts w i th fo re ign coun t r ie s, i n c l u d i ng p a ym e n ts for impo r t s, requ i re app roval by the Cen t ral Bank 's Exchange Con- t rol Office. Foreign t rade is a state monopoly. Impo rt and export licenses a re issued, w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of a n n u al im p o rt and expo rt p rog ram s, by IM PORTEX, a s ta te en te rp r ise. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts on account of t r a n s a c t i o ns covered by b i l a t e r al paymen ts ag reemen ts a re made in cu r renc ies prescribed by, and th rough accoun ts es tab l ished u n d e r, the prov is ions of the agreemen ts .2 Se t t lemen ts w i th o ther c o u n t r i es a re made in de s igna ted "conve r t ib le" c u r r e n c i es quo ted by the Cen t ral Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of non r e s id ent a c coun t s: Non- res ident T ran s fe rab le Accoun ts in Foreign Cu r renc ies and Non r e s id ent Accoun ts in Sylis. The o p e n i ng of a non re s ident account is sub ject to the pr ior app rov al of the Exchange Con trol Off ice. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts, o ther t h an those u n d er the Five-Year P l an, r equ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses, which a re issued by 1 In c lud ing Belgian f r a n c s, C an ad i an do l la rs, CFA f r a n c s, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J ap an e se y e n, M a li f r a n c s, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, pounds s t e r l i n g, S a u di A r a b i an r i y a l s, S ie r ra Leonean leones, Spanish pese tas, Swed ish k r o n e r, and Swiss f rancs. - G u i n ea m a i n t a i ns b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts a g r e em e n ts w i th A l g e r i a, Bu l- g a r i a, People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Cuba, C z e cho s lov ak i a, H u n g a r y, Lebanon, Morocco, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U .S .S .R ., and Viet N am. There is also a compensa t ion a r r a n g em e nt w i th a p r i v a te firm es tab- l ished in Sw i t z e r l a n d. The ag r e em en ts w i th Cuba, Lebanon, S ie r ra Leone, and Viet Nam a re inope ra t ive. S e t t l em en ts w i th B u l g a r ia w e re placed on a conver t ib le cu r r en cy basis w i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. 210 IMPORTEX w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of the a n n u al impo rt p rog ram. Once an impo rt license has been issued, au tho r i z a t ion for the correspond ing p aym ent is g ran ted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders requ i re impo rt licenses for s ta t i s t ical purposes on ly and are not res tr ic ted. The a n n u al impo rt p rog ram takes in to con s ide ra t ion the sources of impo r ts and the av a i l ab i l i ty of conve r t ib le cu r renc ies and of balances under paymen ts agreements. Ce r ta in impo r ts a re e f fec ted ou t s ide the im p o rt pro- gram. These are goods for wh ich fo re ign exchange is der ived f rom sources o ther th an the exchange reserves of Gu inea —e .g ., impo r ts made by two "mixed economy companies" ( the F r igu ia Company and the Gu inea B aux i te C om p a n y) and by fo re ign embass ies —and goods for the Five-Year P lan. A ll commod i t ies a re sub j e ct to impo rt surcharges, except when impo r ted by the "mixed economy compan ies ." Payments for Invisibles A ll p a ym e n ts for inv i s ib les r e q u i re the a u t h o r i z a t i on of the Exchange Control Off ice, i r r e sp e c t ive of the c o u n t ry to wh ich the p a ym e nt is to be made, un less financed f rom re ta ined export proceeds (see be low ). Paymen ts for f r e i g ht and i n s u r a n ce in connec t ion w i th impo r ts are au tho r i z ed as pa rt of the impo rt l icense. No exchange is g ran ted for o ther types of i n s u r a n ce w i th comp an i es ab road. There is no bas ic a l lo c a t ion for tou r ist or business t rave l; each app l ica t ion is considered i n d i v i d u a l l y. G o v e r nm e nt o f f i c i a ls on o f f i c i al m iss ions are p e rm i t t ed an a l low an ce of GS 400 a d ay. P i lg r ims are g r a n t ed exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of GS 6,000 for each p i lg r image and, in add i t ion, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fa res connected w i th the p i lgr image. In cases of serious i l lne s s, p rov ided t h at a doctor's ce r t i f i- ca te is s u bm i t t e d, re s iden ts a re g r an t ed fo r e ign exchange for med ical care ab road or a re p e rm i t t ed to t r a n s f er exchange for the care of r e l a t i v es r e c e i v i ng medical t r e a tm e nt ab road. I n d i v i d u al a u t h o r i z a t i on is requ i red for the p aym ent in G u i n ea of a ll f a r es for f o r e i gn t rave l. Paymen ts for f am i ly suppo rt may be made up to m o n t h ly am o u n ts d e t e rm i n ed on the m e r i ts of the case. For o f f i c i a l ly recognized s tudy ab road, the s tuden t 's p a r en ts may t r a n s f er the e q u i v a l e nt of the am o u nt of a g o v e r nm e nt scho la r sh ip, i .e ., GS 2,250 a mon th. Stu- den ts beg inn ing the ir s tud ies abroad are gran ted an addi- t i o n al f o r e i gn exchange a l l ow a n ce of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign I n v e s tm e nt Law g u a r a n t e es that at least 20 per cent of the net a n n u al p ro f i ts of app roved fo re ign i n v e s tm e n ts may be t r a n s f e r r ed ab ro ad; the pe rcen tage a c t u a l ly p e rm i t t ed to be t r an s f e r r ed abroad depends on the ag reement conc luded be tween the en te rp r ise con- cerned and the G o v e r nm e n t. Exp a t r i a te workers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution employed by the pub l ic sector in Gu inea may t rans fer abroad 40 per cent of their net m o n t h ly sa la r ies and those employed by the private sector are permitted to t r an s f er up to 30 per cent of the ir net mon th ly salaries. The export of Gu in e an currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an a n n u al export program for all expor ts except those of the "mixed economy companies." A ll expor ts r equ i re i n d i v i d u al l icenses in o rder ( 1) to assure the im p l em e n t a t i on of the expo rt program (p a r- t i cu l a r ly in respect of comm i tm en ts u n d er b i l a t e r al trade ag reemen t s ); (2) to pe rm it the T r e a su ry to l evy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payab le in fo re ign exchange are levied on the v o l ume of b a u x i te and a lum ina expo r ted ); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domes t ic c o n s um p t i o n; and (4) to p r ev ent the export of cap i ta l. Special au tho r i z a t ion f r om desig- nated agencies is requ ired in add i t ion to the export license for the f o l l ow i ng commod i t ies: w i ld a n im a ls (dead or a l iv e ), ed ib le an im a l s, articles of h is to r ical or e thnog raph ical in te res t, j ew e l ry, a r t ic les made of prec ious metals, and p lan ts and seeds. An export license is gran ted on ly when the expo r ter assumes the ob l iga t ion to surrender the proceeds imm ed i a t e ly a f ter they are collected. Most expor ts other th an those effected by the "mixed economy compan ies" are made by three state expo r t ing en te rp r ises: P R O M I N E X, PROSECO, a nd FRU T EX, wh i ch are subs id iar ies of a ho ld ing company, SECOMEX. For- eign p lan te rs may be g ran ted spec ial t r a n s f er p r iv i l eg es related to the qu an t i ty of p ineapp les, banana s, or c i t rus f r u i ts expo r ted, and p r i v a te t r ad e rs may also be per- mitted to re ta in a part of t h e ir expo rt proceeds in order to finance au thor ized impo r ts. A ll other expo rt proceeds m u st be s u r r e n d e r e d; how- ever, the F r igu ia Comp any and the G u i n ea Baux i te Company a re a l l ow ed to r e t a in t h e ir expo rt proceeds abroad, to pay for th e ir impo r ts and ope ra t ing r equ i r e- ments and to se rv ice the ir ex t e rn al deb t. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds a c c r u i ng to residents in respect of invisibles mu st be su r rende red. The impo rt of f o r- eign bankno tes and t r av e l e rs checks is p e rm i t t ed f r e e l y, subject to dec la ra t ion on en t ry, but both mu st in p r inc i- p le be s u r r e n d e r ed w i t h in 24 h o u rs a f t er e n t r y. N o n- resident travelers may repurchase and re-export the fore ign exchange dec la red upon en t ry, a f t er deduc t ion of their local expend i tures; this deduc t ion cannot be less than the equ iva lent of US$20 for each day of the ir stay, unless ev idence can be p roduced to show that GUINEA actual expenditure was less. The impo rt of G u i n e an cu r rency is prohibited. Capital A ll capital t ran s fe rs requ i re au tho r i z a t ion. Ou tw a rd cap i tal transfers by Gu inean na t iona ls are prohibited. The Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 507AN /62) of Ap r il 5, 1962, which replaced a mo re res t r ic t ive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against the na t iona l i- za t ion of fore ign inve s tmen ts in the indu s t r i al and m i n i ng sectors; it also provides for p re fe ren t ial tax and customs trea tment app l icab le to fo re ign inve s tmen ts and for the t ran s fer of profits, interest, amo r t iza t ion, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds of such inves tmen ts. Small and med ium -s ized en terpr ises in which at least GS 15 m i l l i on is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemp- t ions for a period of 7 to 10 years; ex emp t ions for up to 25 years may be gran ted on long-term inves tmen ts of pa r t icu lar impo r tance to the G u i n e an economy. The ac tual cond i t ions under which fo r e ign inves tmen ts may be made are subject to nego t ia t ions w i th in the terms of this law. Gold G u i n ea has issued f o ur commemo ra t ive gold co ins wh ich are legal tender. Fur thermore, residents may hold and a cqu i re gold co ins in Gu in ea for n um i sm a t ic pu r- poses. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm other th an jewe lry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1976 January 1. Fo l low ing the t e rm in a t ion of the bilateral p aym en ts ag r e em ent w i th the G e rm an Democra t ic Repub l ic, settlements w i th that coun t ry were placed on a conve r t ib le cu r rency basis. June 30. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Egypt was term ina ted. April 20. Decree No. 130 /PRG established SECOMEX, an export ho ld ing company, which ama lgama ted all f o rm er state en terpr ises spec ia l iz ing in exports. The three state enterprises prev ious ly in charge of exports (PROStco, FRUTEX, and P R OM I N E X) became subsidiaries of SECOMEX. April 28. The paymen ts agreement with Ghana was t e rm i n a t e d. June 30. The paymen ts agreement w i th Egypt was t e rm i n a t e d. November 5. Agreement was reached to te rm ina te the b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th Bulgaria with effect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Guy- ana Dollar. A central rate of G$2.55 = US$1 has been established, and Guyana avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Guyana normally deals only in Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dol- lars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1976, its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612, respectively, per US$1 and those for sterling were G$4.33814 and G$4.36044, respectively, per £ stg. 1. In its dealings in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of Vic, of 1 per cent on inward transfers and 7/ir, of 1 per cent on outward trans- fers; it charges a commission of Vs of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling, in dealings in Barbados dollars, East Carib- bean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. The commercial banks' charges for Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars are %; of 1 per cent buy ing and 5/s of 1 per cent selling. Their buy ing and selling rates for Barbados dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars are 14 of 1 per cent either side of parity. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal im- port payments and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing gen- erally is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an Ex- ternal Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries out- side Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in 212 any listed specified currency J for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any country out- side Guyana except Rhodesia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. In practice, no funds have been directed into Blocked Accounts in recent years and funds which have not been placed at the free disposal of nonresidents have remained in resident accounts subject to the same rules as apply to the latter. Imports and Import Payments All imports from the Republic of China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few com- modities are prohibited from all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibition is not applicable if they qualify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports from countries of the Caribbean Common Market —CARICOM). All permissible imports (except gifts, parcel post items, and trade samples up to a speci- fied va lue ), irrespective of origin, are subject to indi- vidual licensing. The granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities originating in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are generally granted freely, but such imports must be effected through the External Trade Bureau. The Ex- ternal Trade Bureau has a monopoly over the import of 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution specified commodities from all sources ( inc lud ing certain dairy p roduc ts ); certain other goods (p r im a r i ly paper products, such as books and n ew s p r i n t) can be imported only through the Guy ana N a t i o n al T rad ing Corpora t ion. Certain foods tu f fs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that f a ll under the agricultural ma rke t ing protocol of the CAR I FTA /CAR ICOM Agreement. Payments for au tho r ized impo r ts are pe rm i t ted upon application and submission of the necessary documen- tary evidence. Exchange control fo rms have to be com- pleted for all transac t ions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all coun tr ies requ i re ap- proval, which, except for tourist t ravel and dep rec ia t ion allowances, is usually given free ly, provided th at no illegal capital t rans fer seems to be involved. The basic exchange allocation for tour ist travel has been sus- pended. Travel allowances to residents may only be granted on an ind iv idual basis. Foreign-based compan ies (other than those based in CAR ICOM coun t r ies) and the ir subsidiaries are prohibited f rom t r a n s f e r r i ng dep rec ia t ion allowances. S tandard allocations are applied to cer ta in paymen ts of a personal n a t u re on an annu al basis, e.g., for educa t ion at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld ), for educa t ion at un ive rs i t ies and comparable ins t i tu t ions (G$4,800 for each s tud en t ), and for f am i ly ma in tenance (G$4,800 for each f am i l y ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on depa r tu re to an exit tax of G$3 a person. Travelers going abroad may take w i th them G u y a na currency notes not exceeding G$15; these notes do not form part of any a l lo tment of exchange for trave l. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the va lue of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Nonresident travelers may w i th in one month of their last en try free ly take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to the Republic of China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice may only be made by the Guyana Rice Marke t ing Board. Cer ta in other exports also are channeled through official agen- cies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Depa r tment to ensu re that the exchange pro- ceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 1), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see foo tno te 1) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized GUYANA bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in fore ign banknotes; domestic banknotes may be brought in by r e tu rn ing travelers only and must not exceed G$15 a person. Capital Foreign investors must obtain from the Bank of G u y a na "approved status" for new investments at the t ime of inves tment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries w i th it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment, the pro- ceeds, inc lud ing any capital increments a f ter payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the o r ig inal investment. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies (other than those based in the CAR ICOM a rea) and the ir subsidiaries are prohibited f rom exporting depreciation allowances and from bor- row ing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally pe rm i t ted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) ob ta ined by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other curren- cies may be retained by the recipient. Em ig ran ts of Guyanese na t iona l i ty may not t rans fer abroad any part of their cap i ta/ assets other than a se t t l ing - in allowance of G$100 for each member of a f am i ly u n i t; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, viz., G$24,000 a f am i ly un it at the t ime of emigration and G$17,300 in each follow- ing calendar year. Any unremittable capital proceeds must be retained in Guyana indefinitely, but the funds are not directed into Blocked Accounts. Borrowing f rom nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, on January 5, 1976 it was announced that publicly-owned enterprises would be encouraged to borrow abroad for the financing of spe- cific projects. Foreign-owned companies also would be encouraged to borrow more f rom overseas financial institutions. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num i sma t ic purposes. Residents other than the mone- ta ry authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins for num isma t ic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domes- tic indus try. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and indu s t r ial users. Changes during 1976 February 2. Guyana abolished its Commonwealth ta r i ff preferences. March 11. Emigrating Guyanese nationals were pro- hibited f rom tak ing out of the coun try w i thout the authorization of the Ministry of Finance more than a ring (shown to the satisfaction of the Comptroller to be s ign if icant of the marriage or engagement of that pas- senger), a watch, and all other jewelry up to G$600 in va lue for a fema le passenger, and a ring, a watch, and all other jewelry up to G$400 in value for a male pas- senger. The value of the jewelry that a child under 12 years of age could take out of Guyana was limited to G$200. May 14. Guyana announced a ban on trade with the Republic of China. December 15. The standard exchange allocation for tourist travel of G$200 a year that could be accumulated up to C$600 a person every th ree years was suspended. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.147332 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is G5.00 = US$1, and this rate is applicable to all transactions. The in terven t ion currency is the U.S. dollar. Besides the gourde, the U.S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rm a l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law, and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the Na t ional Bank of the Republic of Haiti and are imp lemen ted by th at Bank and c e r t a in com- mercial banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for ce r ta in foods tu f fs, certain footwear, pa in ts, and passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000 c . i . f .; licenses are gran ted freely. Imports f rom member coun tr ies of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance and Japan require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus try. The M in is try's pr ior au tho r i z a t ion is also required for imports f rom any source of certain types of foo twear and of a few other i tems that are con tro l led for other t h an ba lance of paymen ts reasons. The domes- tic marke t ing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Impo r te rs op en ing letters of cred it at the Na t ional B ank are requ i red to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of cred i t. Ce r ta in impor ts are sub ject to sur- charges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue, in addition to the applicable import du ty; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also sub ject to an add i t ional tax of 2 per cent. Impor ters pay an "economic libera- tion tax" on the am o u nt of the cus toms invo ice; when it exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cen t. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports requ i re pr ior au tho r i z a t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Expo rt au thor iza- tion is u sua l ly g ran ted f ree ly but may be w i thhe ld when domestic supplies are low. Expor ts of essential oils are regulated by the Ma rke t ing O f f ice for Essential Oils. Gold coins, gold and s i lver bu l l ion, etc., may be exported only by the Na t ional Bank. The proceeds of expor ts are not sub ject to exchange con t ro l. Expor ters must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation which is not enforced prohibits the export and impo rt of U.S. banknotes in denom ina t ions of over $20. Residents t rave l ing abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets to a destination in the Caribbean area and G 50 on tickets to a destination outside that area; diplomats and staff of in terna t ional organizations are exempt. Capital Capital t r an s f e rs abroad are not no rma l ly permitted but impo r ts may be made freely. Foreign inves tment in Ha i ti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior government approval. Permission is not no rma l ly granted to non- res iden ts for inves tmen ts in h and i c r a ft industries. Under a decree of Ap r il 6, 1973, p r iva te banks ope ra t ing in Ha i ti are requ ired to keep in the fo rm of domestic assets a m i n im um of 85 per cent of t h e ir l iab i l i t ies to local customers. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Haiti for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and authorized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. By v i r tue of a law of August 31, 1942, the Na t ional Bank has the exc lus ive right to purchase domes t ica l ly and export gold in the fo rm of coins, m ine ra l, dust, or bars. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other th an jewe l ry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports requ i re in add i t ion pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is try of F inance, wh i le impo r ts for indu s t r i al use requ ire prior authorization by the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry and the M in i s t ry of F inance as well as an endorsement by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus- try before customs clearance. However, commercial impo r ts of a r t ic les con t a in ing a l im i ted amount of gold, such as gold watches, are free ly perm i t ted and do not requ i re an impo rt l icense or other au tho r iza t ion. Several gold coins have been issued, wh ich are legal tender but do not c i rcu la te. Changes during 1976 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.368331 gram of fine gold per Hondu ran Lemp i ra, co r respond ing to L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buy ing, and L 2.02 se l l ing, per US$1. Bankno tes in Costa R ican colones, Gua te- m a l an que tza les, N ica raguan cordobas, and Sa lvadoran colones are purchased at par i ty rates m inus an off ic ial exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at par i ty rates. Hondu ras has no exchange restrictions on fo re ign payments. Exchange may be purchased f rom local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buye rs are requ i red to file an app l ica t ion s t a t ing how the exchange w i ll be used. Ea rne rs of fo re ign exchange w i s h i ng to nego t ia te the exchange in Hondu r as may do so on ly w i th the Cen t ral Bank of Hondu r as or th rough the b a n k i ng system for account of the Cen t ral B ank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras f o rm a l ly no t i f i ed the Fund that it had assumed the ob l iga t ions of A r t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, beg inn ing on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No ob l iga t ions p resc r ib ing the method of cu r rency for payments to or f rom non res iden ts are imposed. Pay- men ts to Costa R ica, El Sa lvador, G u a t em a l a, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensacion Cen troamer icana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Paymen ts to Mexico may also be settled in H o n d u r an l em p i r as th rough the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- men ts and t rans fe rs abroad may be made free ly; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are requ ired to file an app l ica t ion s ta t ing how the exchange w i ll be used. Certain essential impo r ts (List 1) requ i re prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms. Certain nonessential impor ts (List 2) also are subject to Central Bank approva l; the use of ex te rnal credit for these goods is proh ib i ted. Imports of goods appea r ing on ne i ther list are exempt f rom Cen tral Bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. The impo rt of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the National Development Bank. Most imports from countries outside the Central American Common Market are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Some 216 goods are subject to a customs su r tax of 12 per cent of the du ty and to a consular charge of 8 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold and sugar do not requ ire licenses but must be registered. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Hondu ran Coffee In s t i tu te and those of b an an as by the Hondu ran B an ana Corpora t ion. The export of co rn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the N a t ion al Development B ank, and lumber exports are channe led th rough the Hondu r an Forest Develop- ment Co rpo ra t ion (COHDEFOR ). The proceeds of exports m u st be r e p a t r i a t ed to Hondu r a s; those w i s h i ng to nego- t ia te t h e ir exchange in H o n d u r as may do so on ly w i th the Cen t ral Bank or th rough the b a n k i ng sys tem for a c count of the Cen t ral B a n k. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not res tr ic ted. The impo rt and export of domes t ic and fo re ign b a n k n o t es by t rave le rs a re free. Capital Cap i tal paymen ts are not sub ject to exchange con tro l. However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 2 of J a n u a ry 28, 1969, the au tho r i z a t ion of the M i n i s t er of F inance is requ i red for a ll ac t iv i t ies im p l y i ng the receipt of resources and their t ran s fer abroad for purposes of inves tment in mu tu al fund s, hous ing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mu tual funds and s im i lar financial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect f u n ds in Hondu ras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Econom ic P l ann ing, and the Central Bank is required for the Gov e rnm ent to contract any fore ign indebted- ness, whe ther for impo rt financing or other purposes; the con t rac t ing of ex te rnal indeb tedness by the private sector requ ires app roval by the Cen t ral Bank only. The fo re ign assets and l i ab i l i t i es of the b ank ing system are sub ject to ceilings. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu i re gold coins in Hon- du ras for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this exception, res iden ts other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B a n k; such l icenses are not n o rm a l ly g ran ted except for impo r ts and expo r ts by or on b eh a lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies, i n d u s t r i al users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is expor ted in the f o rm of ore for re f in ing. Comme rc ial impo r ts and exports of j ew e l ry and other articles con t a in ing gold requ i re l icenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy; for most articles, these are g r an t ed free ly. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Changes during 1976 No s i g n i f i c a nt changes took place. HONDURAS 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar. The central rate is HK$5.0850 per US$1. Since November 25, 1974, however, the authorities have not ma in ta ined the exchange ra te for the Hong Kong dollar w i th in the previous official l im i ts of HK$4.9706 and HK$5 .1994 per U S $ 1. On Decem- ber 31, 1976, the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar were HK$4.64 and HK$4.70, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control There is no exchange con tro l. Import and export l icens ing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force; settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non res iden ts may be made and received f r e e ly in Hong Kong do l la rs or any o ther cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts No d is t inc t ion is made be tween res ident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for ce r ta in du t iab le commod i t ies and a few other i tems which a re controlled for hea l th and s e c u r i ty reasons, impo r ts are f ree of license. However, all goods o r i g i n a t i ng in or shipped f r om Rhodesia requ i re an impo rt license. V i r t u a l ly a ll impor ts mu st be dec lared to the D ep a r tm ent of Commerce and I n d u s t ry w i t h in 14 days of impo r ta t ion. The impo rt of rice is sub ject to a quo ta system operated by the D e p a r tm e nt of Com- merce and Indus t ry. Paymen ts for perm i t ted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are requ ired on ly for strategic goods, f o o d s t u f f s, electrical products, and some other items for wh ich control is imposed to enable Hong Kong to f u l f i ll ce r ta in i n t e r n a t i o n al ob l iga t ions; textiles a re also subject to l icens ing, pa r t ly because of a number of b i l a t e r al a r r ang em en ts w i th specified countries under wh ich the export of certain textiles is restricted. All exports must be declared to the Depa r tment of Com- merce and Indu s t ry, which is also the export licensing a u t h o r i t y. Export proceeds may be collected at any time in any currency. They need not be repatriated or su r rende red. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no l im i t a t i o ns on paymen ts for or receipts f r om inv i s ib le s. Re s ident and non r e s id ent trave lers may f r e e ly b r i ng in and take out any am o u nt in domestic or fo r e ign b ankno t e s, t rave le rs checks, and o ther means of p aym en t. Capital No exchange con trol r equ i r em en ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or p a ym e n ts by res iden ts or non res iden ts. Gold There is a f ree m a rk et for gold in wh ich dealings by re s iden ts and non re s iden ts a re un re s t r ic ted. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm ( i n c l u d i ng f in ished jewe l ry) are free ly perm i t ted and do not require licenses. Resi- den ts may hold gold in any f o rm in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not c i rcu la te. 1 Hong Kong is a n o nm e t r o p o l i t an t e r r i t o ry in respect of wh i ch the Un i ted K ingdom has accepted the Fund 's A r t ic les of A g r e em e n t. Changes during 1976 No s i g n i f i c a nt changes took place. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.00830471 g ram of fine gold per Ice land ic K ron a. A c en t r al ra te has been es tab l ished of 0.00792269 g ram of fine gold per I c e l and ic k ron a. No exchange t ran sac t ions t a ke place at the par v a lue or the central rate, s ince no announced m a rg ins have been observed since June 15, 1973. The off ic ial rates on December 31, 1976 were IKr 189.50 b u y i ng and IK r l 8 9 . 90 se l l ing, per US$1. Ra tes for o ther cu r r en- cies are based on the o f f ic ial rates for the U.S. d o l l ar and the do l lar rates for the cu r renc ies conce rned in in te rna t ional m a rk e t s. The au tho r i z ed b a n ks are per- mitted to carry out exchange t r an s a c t ions am o ng them- selves and to engage in arb i trage in foreign ma rke ts. Administration of Control The M i n i s t ry of Comme rce, a f t er c o n s u l t i ng the Cen- tral B ank, has the u l t im a te decision on m a t t e rs concern- ing import and export l i c e n s i ng and on p aym en ts for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regu- lation of f o r e i gn exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns and of exchange con tro l, i n c l u d i ng c ap i t al con t ro l s, a nd f or e n s u r i ng that a ll fo r e ign exchange due to r e s id en ts is su r r end e r ed to authorized b anks and t h at such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest comme rc ial banks, the Na t ional Bank of I c e l and and the Fisheries B a n k, are the only au tho r i z ed b a n k s. The a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks issue import and exchange l icen ses in c o n s u l t a t i on w i th the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Expo rt l icenses are issued by the M i n i s t ry of Comme rce. Prescription of Currency As a gene ral r u l e, exchange rece ip ts m u st be o b t a i n ed in conve r t ib le cu r renc ie s. In p rac t ice, s e t t l em e n ts w i th coun tr ies in the do l l ar a rea and w i th B r a z il a re made in U.S. do l la rs; w i th o ther c o u n t r i es f o rm e r ly in the S ter l ing A rea and some o ther c o u n t r i e s, in s t e r l i n g; and with ce r ta in o ther c o u n t r i e s, in t h e ir respec t ive cu r r en c i e s. Nonresident Accounts There are two ca tego r ies of n o n r e s i d e nt k r o na accoun ts: Fo re ign A c coun ts and Spec ial Accoun t s. The opening of non re s ident accoun ts r equ i r es i n d i v i d u al approva l. Foreign Accounts may be cred i ted w i th the proceeds f rom the sale of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy to a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks and w i th au tho r i z ed p a ym e n ts due to n o n r e s i d e n ts f r om residents. Ba lances on Fo re ign A c coun ts may be used freely for p aym en ts to res iden ts and may w i t h o ut a license be converted in to the cu r r en cy of the coun t ry of residence of the account ho lde r. These a c coun ts are in practice seldom used, p a ym e n ts for i n t e r n a t i o n al t r an s- actions g en e r a l ly b e ing made in U.S. d o l l a r s, s te r l ing, or other conver t ib le cu r renc ies. Special Accounts in k ronur or fo re ign cu r rency may be opened by ag reement w i th an au tho r ized b a n k. The most im p o r t a nt of these accoun ts are those of fo r e ign b a n ks and fo re ign i n s u r a n ce compan ie s. They may be cred i ted f ree ly, up to c e r t a in l im i t s, w i th approved p a ym e n ts f rom res iden ts. Imports and Import Payments A ll goods not in c lud ed in the res t r ic ted l i st may be impo r ted f r e e ly w i t h o ut an im p o rt l icense f rom any c o u n t r y; some 90 per cent of to tal impo r ts are l ibe ra l- ized. Some 35 commod i t i es or groups of commod i t ies are in c lud ed in the restricted list and may be subject to qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ion. Some of these commod i t ies are a dm i t t e d, subject to i n d i v i d u al l icense, und er global quo tas that app ly to a ll coun t r ie s. The r em a i n i ng goods on the res t r ic ted l ist a re a dm i t t ed f rom the same coun- t r i es on the basis of i n d i v i d u al l icenses issued on a d i s c r e t i o n a ry ba s is ("other l i c e n s i n g " ). The p r i n c i p al items invo lved are petroleum p roduc ts; the o n ly o ther i n d u s t r i al goods on the list are color television sets and b rooms and brushes. A ll goods on the res tr ic ted l i st r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al l icenses. Ce r ta in im p o r ts a re adm i t t ed o n ly u n d er state t r a d i n g; these i n c l u de f e r t i l i z e r s, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages. Fu r the r- more, f re sh vegetables and potatoes are impo r ted und er the au sp ices of the A g r i c u l t u r al P roduc t ion Board in acco rdance w i th a gov e rnm ent a u t h o r i z a t i o n. None of these commod i t ie s, however, is sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve r e s t r i c t ion. For impo r ts f r om a ll sources, when r e q u i r i ng a l icense, a fee of l/2 of 1 per cent (m i n im um IKr 25) is charged as a l icen se fee on the k r o na am o u nt of the im p o rt l i c e n se when the l icen se is i s sued; for pe t ro leum prod- u c t s, howeve r, th is fee is 0 .1 per cent. The comme rc ial b a n ks r e q u i re ce r ta in advance depos i ts in connec t ion w i th c e r t a in im p o rt t r an s a c t ion s. Impo r t e rs of goods not r e q u i r i ng l icenses do not have to o b t a in a fo re ign exchange p e rm it p r ior to s h i pm e nt f r om ab ro ad, p rov ided that the pu rcha se is payable at s igh t. On the o ther h a n d, the goods w i ll not be cleared by the cu s toms un l e ss p a ym e nt has a l ready been made or the impo r ter has arranged w i th an authorized bank for p a ym e n t. An impo r ter may e i ther open a letter of c r e d it or o b t a in a p a ym e nt ce r t i f ica te wh i ch enables h im at any t ime to buy f o r e i gn exchange to pay for the goods. For impo r ts th at r equ i re an i n d i v i d u al l icense, f o r e i gn exchange is g ran ted in accordance w i th the t e rms s t i p u l a t ed in the l icense. Impo r te rs may free ly accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 m o n t hs f rom the date of arr ival at an Ice land ic port for l is ted goods co r respond ing to some 55 per cent of 1970 impo r t s; the goods not listed are m a i n ly b u i l d i ng ma te r ia ls and nonessential goods ( inc lud ing motor 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND vehicles for personal u s e ). Cred it in excess of 3 mon ths and not exceeding 12 mon ths requ i res perm iss ion by an au tho r ized b ank and the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. For- eign c red it in excess of 12 mon ths is sub ject to govern- ment au tho r i z a t ion. Impo r ts f rom a ll sources of mo tor veh ic les and motorcycles are sub ject to an im p o rt surcharge of 50 per cent ad v a lo r em; the su rcha rge is 25 per cen t, however, for buses and heavy trucks, and ambu l an c es and ce r ta in o ther u t i l i ty vehicles a re exemp t. Fu r the rmo re, ce r ta in nonessen t ial goods, whe ther impo r ted or of domes t ic o r ig in, are subject to a t empo r a ry excise tax of 18 per cent ad va lo rem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange l icense is r equ i r ed for g o v e r nm e nt pay- men ts (such as in te rest and amo r t i z a t ion on ex te rnal loans, expenses of the fo re ign service, paymen ts to i n t e r- n a t i o n al o rgan iza t ion s, p aym en ts for pos ta l, t e l eg r aph i c, and te lephone se rv ices ), for b a n k i ng comm iss ions, or for b ank charges on fo re ign exchange t r an s a c t ion s. Most other ou tgo ing paymen ts are licensed f r e e ly on the basis of bona fide do cum en t s. The basic a l loca t ion for tou r i st t ravel is the equ iv a l ent of IKr 50,000 (about US$270) a person for one t r ip a year ( IKr 25,000 for c h i l d r e n ); if a second t r ip is made in the same ca lendar year, an add i t ional a l loca t ion of 50 per cent of the basic a l loca t ion is g r an t ed. App l ica t ions for exchange for ma jor repa ir of ships, repa ir of means of t ran spo rt o ther than sh ips and a i r c r a f t, t ran sac t ions and t r an s f e rs in connec t ion w i th d irect in su r an c e, and i n s u r a n ce busi- ness operations abroad are considered on th e ir me r i t s. The c h a r t e r i ng of fo re ign sh ips u su a l ly is not a l lowed when Ice land ic vessels are ava i lab le for cha r ter on no rm al terms. Res ident and non re s ident trave lers may t ake out up to IKr 1,500 in Ice land ic bankno tes and co ins, in d e n om i n a t i o ns not exceeding IKr 100. Non re s ident trave lers may re-export any foreign exchange th ey b rought in upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All comme rc ial exports requ ire l icenses. The sh ip- p i ng do cum en ts mu st be lodged w i th an au tho r ized b ank. Exchange receipts accru ing f r om exports must be sur- rendered w i thout u n d ue de lay. A ll f ish produc ts a re sub ject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv i s ib les mu st be su r rende red w i t h o ut u n d ue delay. The owners of Ice land ic ships and a i r c r a ft are, w i th the approval of the au tho r ized banks, perm i t ted to re ta in their foreign exchange receipts f rom f re igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for ope ra t ing purposes and for purchases of neces- sities for the homeward j o u r n ey of the sh ip or a i r c r a f t. Ice land ic in su rance compan ies which re in su re abroad are perm i t ted to retain fore ign exchange earned f rom 220 p r em i ums and i n d em n i t i es and to use it to pay re insu r- ance p r em i um s, c la ims, and other regu lar e x p e n d i t u r es of the i n s u r a n ce bu s ine ss in the c o u n t ry whe re the f o r e i gn exchange was ea rned. R e s i d e nt and non r e s id ent t rave le rs may b r i ng in up to IKr 1,500 in I c e l a n d ic b a n k n o t es and co ins, in denom i- n a t i o ns not exceed ing IKr 100. There are no l im i t a t i o ns on the im p o rt of fo re ign b a n k n o t es and co ins. Capital A ll i n v e s tm e n ts by n o n r e s i d e n ts in Ice land a re sub ject to i n d i v i d u al app rova l. The p a r t i c i p a t i on by nonresi- den ts in Iceland's j o i nt stock compan ies may not exceed 49 per c e n t, and is not a l lowed in the f ish ing indu s t ry. Non re s iden t -owned fo re ign cap i tal e n t e r i ng in the fo rm of fo r e ign exchange mu st be su r r end e r ed. Non r e s id en ts may be au tho r ized to open non re s ident accoun ts for these f u n d s, in wh i ch case t h e ir r e t r a n s f er abroad may be pe rm i t ted. R e s id en ts a re obliged to s u r r e n d er fo re ign exchange a c c r u i ng to them on account of cap i tal t r an s a c t ions and p aym en t s. W i thout the app roval of the G o v e r nm e n t, re s iden ts may not ob ta in loans ab road, i n c l u d i ng loans for f inanc ing impo r ts, for pe r iods exceed ing one year. App l i c a t ions for the c o n t r a c t i ng of f inanc ial c red i ts and loans abroad for a period of less t h an one year are con- s ide red on th e ir me r i ts and app roved o n ly in excep t ional c ircums tances. The con t r a c t ing of comme rc ial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 m o n t hs is also approved on ly in exceptional c i rcums tances, e.g., in connec t ion w i th the impo rt of i n d u s t r i al raw ma te r ia ls for wh ich the p roduc t ion process is leng thy, the impo rt of con s t ru c t ion ma te r ia ls, and so fo r th. The au tho r i t ies pe rm it the use of supp l ie r s' c red it of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a n um b er of specified impo r ts, i n c l u d i ng mo tor vehicles for personal use, va r ious house- hold app l iances, specified foods, va r ious types of cloth- ing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and po r t land cemen t. The au tho r i t ies may in special c ircums tances a l low impo rt c red it in excess of 90 days for such i tems as machinery, a i rc ra f t, or ships. T r an s f e rs of cap i tal abroad by res iden ts requ i re approval, wh i ch is g ran ted on ly in excep t ional cases. However, d irect inves tment abroad for the purpose of ass is t ing the m a r k e t i ng of I c e l and ic p roduc ts is no rm a l ly per- m i t ted. Po r t fo l io inve s tment abroad by res iden ts is pro- h ib i ted. Ou tw a rd t r an s f e rs of inh e r i t an c e s, legacies, and em ig ran ts' assets are considered on the ir mer i ts and are restricted. Non res iden ts may acqu i re Ice land ic secur i t ies and o ther assets w i th impo r ted f u n d s; the t r a n s f er abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale of these assets and securities requ ires au tho r i z a t ion. Securities held in Iceland by non re s iden ts mu st be registered, and a ll t ran sac t ions and opera t ions concern ing them are subject to l icens ing. The import and expo rt of secur i t ies by res iden ts are subject to the app rova l, of the Cen t ral Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold A c omm em o r a t i ve gold co in w i th a f a ce v a l ue of IKr 10,000 is legal t e n d er but does not c i r c u l a t e. Res i- d e n ts may ho ld and a c q u i re gold in Ice land, sub ject to c e r t a in legal r e q u i r em e n t s. Im p o r ts and expo r ts of gold in a ny f o rm o ther t h an j ew e l ry r e q u i re l i c en s es issued by the C e n t r al B a n k; such l i c en s es a re not n o rm a l ly g r an t ed except for im p o r ts and expo r ts by or on b e h a lf of the m o n e t a ry a u t h o r i t i es and i n d u s t r i al u se r s. How- ever, c i t i z e ns r e t u r n i ng to I c e l a nd a f t er a per iod of res idence ab ro ad m ay f r e e ly b r i ng in a ny gold in t h e ir possession. Changes during 1976 January L A r e d u c t i on in t a r i f fs took e f f e ct acco rd- ing to the t e rms of I c e l and 's ag r e em en ts w i th the EEC and the EFTA. January 1. The b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts a g r e em e nt w i th the U.S.S.R. was t e rm i n a t ed and s e t t l em e n ts we re p laced on a c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy bas is. January 1. The t em p o r a ry excise tax lev ied on c e r t a in none s sen t ial goods, whe ther of dome s t ic or f o r e i gn o r i g i n, was reduced f r om 12 per cent to 10 per cent ad va lo rem ( b ut was ra ised and ex t end ed s u b s e q u e n t l y, see May 14 and October 2 5 ). January 5. Impo rt d u ty e x em p t i o ns we re g r an t ed to ICELAND raw m a t e r i a ls impo r ted for use in the m a n u f a c t u re of con f e c t ion e ry. January 9. The first of n um e r o us changes d u r i ng the year in the o f f ic ial exchange rate took place. The buy ing and s e l l i ng ra tes in t e rms of the U.S. do l lar were ch ang ed f r om IKr 170.60 and IKr 171 .00 to IKr 170.90 and IKr 171 .30, respec t ive ly. By December 31, 1976 the o f f i c i al ra tes had moved to IKr 189.50 b u y i ng and IKr 189.90 s e l l i n g, per US $ 1. January 28. Im p o rt s u r v e i l l a n ce was i n t r o d u c ed in respect of b r e ad, b i scu i t s, cakes, and o ther bake ry i tems. These i t em s, wh i ch account for about 0 .5 per cent of Ice land's me rchand i se im p o r t s, were removed f r om the l i st of l ibe ra l ized impo r ts and made sub ject to i n d i- v i d u al l icen s ing. May 14. The t em p o r a ry excise tax on c e r t a in non- e s sen t ia ls was ra ised f r om 10 per cent to 18 per cent ad v a lo r em. July I. Ta r i ff r edu c t ions for I c e l and ic f i sh expo r ts to the EEC c o u n t r i es became e f f e c t i ve as s t i p u l a t ed in the t r ade ag reement be tween I c e l and and the EEC. July 8. The basic exchange a l loca t ion for t o u r i st t r a v el was in c r e a s ed f r om IKr 37,500 to IKr 50,000 a person for one t r ip a year. October 25. The t em p o r a ry excise tax on c e r t a in non e s s en t i a ls wh i ch was due to exp i re on December 3 1, 1976 was ex tended u n t il December 31, 1977. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a lue is 0.118489 g ram of fine gold per Ind i an Rupee. Since September 25, 1975 the rupee has been pegged to a weighted basket of currenc ies, w i th in ma r- g ins of 2.25 per cent on e i ther side. The rates of exchange for t r an s a c t ions in s ter l ing have been pre- scribed by the Reserve B ank of Ind ia. At the end of December 1976, the Reserve Bank's m idd le rate for s te r l ing was Rs 15.20, and its b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for i ts ope ra t ions in s te r l ing w i th au thor ized dealers were Rs 15.15 and Rs 15.25, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, deutsche m a rk, Japanese yen, and A s ian mone ta ry u n i t s, spot and fo rw a rd, and to sell spot pounds s te r l ing and As ian mone ta ry u n i t s. Au tho r ized dealers are pe rm i t ted to cover the ir requ iremen ts of foreign currencies in the London mar- ket and to cover their permitted transactions in certain listed cu r renc ies ( t he "permitted cu r renc ies") 1 aga inst rupees or any one of these currenc ies, e i ther spot or fo rwa rd for periods not exceed ing s ix mon ths, w i th au tho r ized b a n ks in any c o u n t ry ou t s ide the B i l a t e r al Account g roup .2 On December 3 1, 1976, m a rk et rates for te leg raph ic t r an s f e rs on New York were US $ 1 1 . 33 b u y i ng ( c l e a n) and U S $ 1 1 . 11 se l l ing, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank 's rates were US$11 .2600 b u y i ng spot, and US$11 .1600, US$11 .0700, US$10.9850, and US$10.7850 b u y i ng fo rw a rd ( f or 1, 2, 3, and 6 mon ths' de l ivery, re spec t ive ly ), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides fo rw a rd cover to au tho- rized dea lers by pu rchases of s te r l ing for up to 9 mon ths' d e l iv e ry i n i t i a l ly ( a nd ex tendab le up to 12 m o n t h s ), and of deutsche m a r k, Japanese yen, and U.S. do l la rs for 1, 2, 3, and 6 mon th s' de l ivery. In a d d i t i o n, the Bank o f fe rs f o rw a rd cover in these four cu r renc ies in respect of expor ts of specified cap i tal and p roducer goods, for per iods of 18 mon ths to 10 years f r om the da te of conc lu s ion of the export con t rac t. The Bank also pu r- chases A s ian m o n e t a ry u n i ts f r om au tho r ized dea lers, for 3, 6, and 9 mon th s' de l ive ry (ex tendab le up to 12 m o n t h s ). Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in i s te red by the Reserve Bank in accordance w i th the general policy laid down 1 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C a n a d i an do l la rs, Dan ish k r o n e r, d e u t s c he m a r k, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i re, J ap an e se y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i ld e r s, No rw eg i an k r o n e r, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swed ish k ron o r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. do l la r s. - B u l g a r i a, Czecho s lovak ia, G e rm an D emo c r a t ic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, N o r th Ko rea, Po land, R om a n i a, and U .S .S .R. The re a re also spec ial p a ym e n ts a r r a n g em e n ts w i th A f g h a n i s t a n, E g y p t, a nd S u d an f or se t t le- m e nt of th e ir t r a de w i th Ind ia in spec if ied commod i t ies on a ba lanced basis w i t h in spec i f ic ce i l ing s, and the State T r a d i ng C o r p o r a t i on of I n d ia has an a r r a n g em e nt w i th the Tun i s i an agency OCET for ba lanc- ing pu rcha ses of spec i f ied commod i t i e s. W i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1977 se t t lemen ts w i th Egypt and Sudan w e re placed on a conve r t ib le cu r r en cy basis. 222 by the Gove rnment of Ind ia in consu l ta t ion with the B ank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to ce r ta in commerc ial banks, which act as au tho r ized dealers pe rm i t ted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. With respect to direct inve s tmen ts in Ind i a, a ll co l labora t ion proposals, with or w i t h o ut equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion, are reviewed by the Foreign Inve s tment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange R e g u l a t i on Act, the gene ral or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the con t inuance of com- merc ia l, indu s t r i a l, and t rad ing activities in Ind ia of compan ies w i th more than 40 per cent nonresident inter- est or for the es tab l ishment by them in India of any b r an ch, office, or o ther place of business for carrying out any such ac t iv i ty. The Reserve Bank's prior per- mission is also requ ired by nonres iden ts, noncitizens, n o n b a n k i ng compan ies not incorporated under Indian law, and I n d i an compan ies w i th more than 40 per cent non re s ident in te rest for ac t ing or accep t ing appo in tment as agen ts or techn ical advisers of any person or company in Ind ia in the t r a d i ng or comme rc ial t ransac t ions of such persons or compan ies. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Con t ro l ler of Impo r ts and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescr ip t ion of cu r rency purposes, coun tr ies are d iv ided i n to two g roup s: B i l a t e r al Account c o u n t r i e s2 and Ex t e rn al Account coun t r ies ( a ll other coun t r ie s ); the f o rm er g roup is also re fe r red to as the Rupee Pay- ment Area and the l a t t er as the General Cu r rency Area. P aym en ts to and f r om B i la te ral Account coun tr ies must be se t t led in Ind i an rupees th rough the app rop r ia te c lea r ing accoun t. P aym en ts to 14 Ex te rnal Account coun t r i es :' may be made in rupees to the credit of the account of a res ident of any coun t ry in th is group or in the cu r r en cy of any coun t ry or t e r r i to ry in this sub- g roup. P a ym e n ts to a ll o ther Ex t e rn al Account coun- t r ies may be made in ( 1) the c u r r e n cy of the coun t ry conce rned; (2) the c u r r e n cy of any coun t ry of the subg roup m en t ion ed; or ( 3) rupees to the account of a re s ident of any c o u n t ry in the Ex te rnal Account group.4 ;i The c o u n t r i es l i s ted a re A u s t r i a, B e l g i um -L u x em b o u r g, C an ad a, D e nm a rk and the Faroe I s l and s, F rench F r anc A r e a, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm a n y, I t a l y, J a p a n, N e t h e r l a n ds M o n e t a ry A rea, N o rw a y, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l a nd a nd L i e c h t e n s t e i n, U n i t ed K i n g d om, a nd Un i t ed S t a t es a nd t e r r i t o r i es u n d er U .S. s o v e r e i g n t y. 4 A ll r em i t t a n c es by n a t i o n a ls of the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina to any c o u n t ry o u t s i de I n d ia and a ll r em i t t a n c es to the People's Repub l ic of C h i na by any person r e s id ent in I n d i a, w h e t h er for pe rsonal or t r a de pu rpo se s, we re s topped w i th e f f e ct f r om Nov emb er 3, 1962. A ll p a ym e n ts due to the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina a re r e q u i r ed to be c r e d i t ed to b locked rup ee a c coun t s. The p r i or a p p r o v al of the Reserve B a nk is r e q u i r ed for a ll r em i t t a n c es to Rhode s ia. P a ym e n ts for t ran s- ac t ions r e l a t i ng to t r a de w i th P a k i s t an t h at is con du c t ed on a g o v e r nm e n t - t o - g o v e r nm e nt bas is or t h r o u gh g o v e r nm e n t - c o n t r o l l ed t r a de c o r p o r a t i o ns of the two c o u n t r i es or by the p r i v a te sec tor a re a l lowed u n d er special b a n k i ng a r r a n g em e n t s. Besides these special a r r ang e- m en t s, a u t h o r i z ed d e a l e rs h a ve been p e rm i t t ed to e f f e ct c e r t a in types of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Receipts f r om 14 Ex te rnal Account coun t r ies (see foot- note 3) may be obtained in rupees f rom the account of a b ank in any Ex te rnal Account coun t ry, or in the currency of any te r r i to ry in th is subgroup. Receipts f r om a ll other Ex te rnal Account coun t r i es may be ob ta ined in ( 1) the cu r rency of the c o u n t ry concerned; (2) the cu r rency of any te r r i to ry in the subg roup; or ( 3) rupees f rom the account of a b a nk in any Ex te rnal Account coun t ry. N o tw i t h s t a n d i ng the foregoing, special ru les may be app l icab le in respect of A f g h a n i s t a n, Egypt, the Sudan, and exports u n d er l ines of cred it ex tended by the G o v e r nm e nt of I n d ia to the gove rnmen ts of cer ta in foreign countries. In add i t ion, paymen ts to, and receipts f rom, member coun t r ies of the A s i an C l e a r ing U n i on other t h an Nepal (i.e., Bang lade sh, I r a n, P ak i s t an, and S ri L a n k a) in respect of c u r r e nt t r a n s a c t i o ns (o ther th an those re la t ing to p e t ro l eum, n a t u r al gas, and t h e ir p roduc ts) may, but need no t, be effec ted in A s i an mone- ta ry u n i ts th rough the A s ian C l e a r ing U n i o n. Nonresident Accounts The accoun ts of I n d i a ns (w i th the excep t ion of cer- t a in accoun ts he ld by persons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or or ig in who are or have been n o n r e s i d e n t s) and of Nepalese and B h u t a n e se n a t i o n a ls res ident in N e p al and B h u t a n, as w e ll as the accoun ts of off ices and b ranches of I n d i a n, Nepalese, and Bhu tanese firms, compan ies, or o ther o r g a n i z a t i o ns in N ep al and B h u t a n, a re t rea ted as res ident accounts."' Accoun ts re la ted to all other fore ign c o u n t r i es are t rea ted as non r e s id ent accounts. The t r e a tm e nt of these accoun ts d i s t i n g u i s h es between those of b a n ks and of o the rs. The a c coun ts of b anks a re c la s s i f ied in two g roups co r respond ing to the d iv i s ion of coun t r i es for prescrip- tion of c u r r e n cy pu rpo se s, i.e., B i l a t e r al Accoun ts and Ex te rnal A c coun t s. These a c coun ts may be cred i ted w i th p a ym e n ts for impo r t s, in te re s t, d i v i d e n d s, and other authorized purposes, w i th au thor ized t r an s f e rs f rom the nonres ident accoun ts of p r iv a te f i rms ( i n c l u d i ng b a n k s) or persons, w i th proceeds f r om sales of the cu r rency of the c o u n t ry or m o n e t a ry a rea of the a c count ho ld e r, and w i th proceeds f r om sa les of the c u r r e n c i es of Ex t e rn al Account coun t r i e s. They may be deb i ted for p a ym e n ts for expor ts and for o ther p a ym e n ts to res iden ts of I n d i a. These accounts may also be deb i ted for t r a n s f e rs to nonres ident a c coun ts of persons and f i rms ( i n c l u d i ng b a n k s ), p rov ided t h at both t he t r a n s f e r or a nd t r a n s f e r ee accounts are of Ex t e rn al A c count coun t r i e s. T r an s f e rs may be made f r om Ex te rnal Accoun ts to other Ex t e rn al Accounts. A ll o ther en t r i es on B i l a t e r al and Ex te rnal Accounts, w i th the excep t ion of deb i ts by way of pay- ments to res iden ts, r equ i re the p r ior app roval of the Reserve B a n k. personal and t r a de r em i t t a n c es to P a k i s t an in a c c o r d a n ce w i th r egu l a- tions applicable to such r em i t t a n c e s; r em i t t a n c es for a ll o ther purposes require the p r ior app roval of the R e s e rve B a n k. 3 However, res iden ts of Nepal h a ve to o b t a in t h e ir f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge requ i remen ts f r om t he Nepal R a s t ra B a n k. INDIA O r d i n a ry non res ident accoun ts of pr iva te i n d i v i d u a ls or firms may be credited, w i thout pr ior app rova l, for payment of d iv idends and interest on secur i t ies, shares, and deposits; r e f u n ds of amoun ts p rev iou s ly debited or overcharged; proceeds of rem i t tances in app rop r ia te fore ign currency or transfers f rom appropr ia te nonresi- d ent banks' rupee accoun ts (see section on Prescr ip t ion of Cu r rency, abov e ); proceeds f r om checks issued by the L i fe In su rance Corporation in respect of m a t u r i ty or death c la ims and su r render v a lue of policies held by non re s iden t s, prov ided that the Corporation certifies that p r em i ums had been received in I n d ia in an approved m a n n er and that ac tuar ial reserves are held in Ind ia; r e f u n ds pe rm i t ted by the income tax au tho r i t ie s; pen- sions due f rom the Central Gove rnment or any State Gov e rnm en t; w i t h d r aw a ls or loans f rom, and m a t u r i ty proceeds o f, the Pub l ic P rov ident F u n d, where the a c count ho ld er is an I n d i an n a t i o n al or a person of I n d i an o r i g i n; and proceeds of checks, prov ided that the aggregate of such credits d u r i ng a mon th does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no i n d i v i d u al cred it is in excess of Rs 750. Whe re the non res ident account ho lder is an I n d i an n a t i o n a l, m a t u r i ty proceeds of a ll types of securi- ties as we ll as sales proceeds of securities sold on stock exchanges in I n d ia and the repurchase price of units issued by the U n it Trust of I n d ia may be f r e e ly credited to his accoun t. Where the account ho lder (in the case of a j o i nt accoun t, any of the account ho lde r s) is a fore ign n a t i o n a l, au tho r ized dealers may f r e e ly credit the sale and m a t u r i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repu rchase price of un i ts, provided that the securities had been o r i g i n a l ly purchased e i ther out of f u n ds he ld in the account or by r em i t t an ce f r om abroad, and in the case of sales proceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Sales proceeds of shares owned by the n o n r e s i d e nt account ho lde r, w h e t h er he is an I n d i an or a fo r e ign n a t i o n a l, may be f r e e ly credited to h is account if the shares had been sold w i th the approval of the Reserve B a n k. O r d i n a ry p r iv a te non r e s id ent accounts, as well as b locked accoun ts m a i n t a i n ed by persons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r ig in who are resident abroad, w i th a b a l a n ce of Rs 50,000 or less may be f ree ly debited for local p aym en t s. O ther o r d i n a ry p r iva te non res ident accoun ts may be deb i ted w i thout pr ior approval for such i t ems as p a ym e n ts for p r em i ums on l i fe i n s u r a n ce poli- cies of the account ho lder or his dependen ts; all taxes due f r om the account ho lder in I n d i a; con t r ibu t ions to the Na t ional Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's N a t i o n al Re l ief F u n d, or any government-sponsored c h a r i t y; a l lowances not exceed ing Rs 1,000 a mon th to r e l a t iv es and dependen ts in I n d i a; inves tmen ts in Ind ian G o v e r nm e nt securities and in un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of Ind i a; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week d r awn in f avor of benef ic iar ies resident in Ind ia or in f a v or of the account holder wh i le tempo ra r i ly resident in Ind i a. For o r d i n a ry nonres ident accounts of Indian 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA na t iona ls or persons of I n d i an o r i g i n, as w e ll as blocked accounts of such persons w i th ba lances in excess of Rs 50,000, the ho lders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week du r ing their stay and, in add i t ion, a l ump sum of up to Rs 10,000 a n n u a l ly may be debited for any pu rpose d u r i ng an account holder's s tay in I n d i a; e i ther type of accoun t, when he ld by a person of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r ig in, may also be debited f r e e ly for inv e s tm ent in the Pub l ic P rov ident Fund Scheme, 1968. O ther cred i ts and debits requ i re the pr ior app roval of the Reserve B ank. T ran s fe rs a re not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed f r om non re s ident accounts of i n d i v i d u a ls or firms to non re s ident accounts of bank s, unless the amoun ts or ig ina l ly credited to such accoun ts could have been t r an s f e r r ed ab road. Special regu la t ions cover f u n ds lodged in N a t i o n al De fence R em i t t an ce Scheme Special Accoun ts repre- s e n t i ng rupee proceeds of inw a rd rem i t tances for the account of non re s iden ts and rupee proceeds f r om sales of cer t if ica tes issued u n d er the Scheme, wh i ch exp i red on May 3 1, 1966. Ba lances in such accoun ts c annot be r em i t t ed abroad; they may, however, be f r e e ly w i th- d r awn for m a k i ng any p a ym e n ts in Ind ia and, sub ject in some cases to p r ior app roval by the Reserve B a n k, be inves ted domes t ica l ly. Non re s ident (E x t e r n a l) Accoun ts may be opened by au thor ized dealers in Ind ia for persons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r ig in res ident outside Ind i a. They may be cred i ted w i th new f u n ds rem i t ted th rough b a n k i ng ch ann e ls f r om the coun t ry of res idence of the account ho lder or f r om any Ex t e rn al Account c o u n t r y. They may also be cred i ted, a f ter approval by the Reserve B a n k, w i th f u n ds f rom any other non re s ident account of the holder, provided that such f u n ds are e l ig ib le for r em i t t an c e. The accoun ts may be debited for disburse- m e n ts in Ind ia and for t r a n s f er abroad. In terest on mon ies s t a n d i ng to the cred it of such accounts is exempt f r om income tax and is t ran s fe rab le. The ba lances held in such accounts a re exempt f rom wea l th t ax. Foreign Cu r r en cy (N o n r e s i d e n t) Accoun ts denom i- na ted in pounds s ter l ing or U.S. dollars may be held by persons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r ig in who are res ident in Ex te rnal Account coun t r ies. These accoun ts may be cred i ted w i th sav ings r em i t t ed th rough n o rm al b a n k i ng ch ann e l s, and w i th in te rest on the balances, which is free of income tax and wea l th tax. Ba lances may be held on ly as te rm deposits but may be repa t r ia ted at any t ime in the currency of d e n om i n a t i o n, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank. There are also blocked accounts, to wh ich are cred i ted cap i tal proceeds and p aym en ts that are due to non re s iden ts and may not be rem i t ted abroad. Assets in Ind ia of Ind i an em ig ran ts in excess of the am o u nt a l lowed to be rem i t ted are also requ i red to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in I n d i an rupee secu- r i t ies quoted on stock exchanges in Ind ia (o ther than bearer secur i t ies) or, if the holder is of Ind i an na t ion- 224 a l i ty or o r i g i n, in the Pub l ic P rov id ent Fund Scheme, 1968; w i th the app roval of the Reserve B a n k, they may also be inves ted in shares of I n d i an compan ies quoted on stock exchanges in Ind ia. The income derived f rom such i n v e s tm e n ts can be r em i t t ed to the owne r 's coun t ry of res idence in acco rdance w i th the spec ial in s t ruc t ions issued by the Reserve B ank at the t ime of o p e n i ng a blocked accoun t. For I n d i an n a t i o n a ls who were gran ted em i g r a t i on f a c i l i t i es p r ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1963, net income f rom i n v e s tm e n ts f inanced f r om b locked accoun ts is a l lowed to be r em i t t ed in f u l l. For those gran ted such f a c i l i t i es between J a n u a ry 1963 and A p r il 1968, rem i t- tances of income f r om assets \ e ft behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any k ind is rem i t tab le to persons who ob ta ined em i g r a t i on f a c i l i t i es a f t er A p r il 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified i tems may be f ree ly impo r ted u n d er an open gene ral l i c en s e. P rac t ica l ly a ll o ther impo r ts requ ire i n d i v i d u al l icenses. Impo r ts of spec if ied raw m a t e r i a ls and componen ts r equ i r ed by "select" i n d u s t r i e s, by sm a l l - s c a le i n d u s t r i e s, and by u n i ts in o ther indu s t r ies t h at had an expo rt p e r f o rm a n ce of 20 per cent or more of t h e ir p rodu c t ion d u r i ng the p rev ious year, a re licensed l ibe ra l ly. Licenses for raw ma te r ia ls and com- pon en ts are issued on a c o n t i n u i ng basis gene ra l ly by way of impo r t e rs c l a im i ng r ep l en i shm ent of goods a c t u a l ly con sum ed d u r i ng a per iod of not more th an 12 m o n t h s. Licenses to a c t u al users for impo r ts of raw m a t e r i a ls and componen ts a re not g ran ted wholly a g a i n st f ree fo r e ign exchange, but p a r t ly aga inst tied-aid c red i ts f r om p a r t i cu l ar coun t r i es or aga in st rupees in b i l a t e r al c l e a r ing accoun ts. However, w i th respect to the p e rm i t t ed o r ig in of im p o r t s, a greater p re fe rence is accorded to ac tual users w i th spec if ied m i n im um export p e r f o rm a n c e. I n d i v i d u al licenses may be issued (1) on a case-by-case basis, (2) on the basis of quo tas allocated to es tab l ished impo r te rs in accordance w i th the ir imports in a base per iod, (3) to ac tual users on the basis of th e ir requ i remen t s, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance w i th the impo rt con tent of their exports. G en e r a l ly, licenses may be used to import f rom any c o u n t ry except N am i b ia (Sou th West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, and the Tibet region of the People's R epub l ic of C h i n a; impo r ts f r om these countries are p roh ib i ted .0 Such licenses are referred to as General Cu r rency Area Licenses, as d is t inct f rom Specific Licenses, wh ich are issued for cap i tal goods and other supp l i es aga in st tied a id and are va l id on ly for imports f r om the coun t ry or coun t r ies p rov id ing the aid. Single C o u n t ry Licenses are issued for ce r ta in imports from coun t r ies w i th wh ich b i la te ral t rade or paymen ts agree- m en ts are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- s tu f f s, fe r t i l ize r s, cap i tal goods, raw materials, and other 0 The im p o r t a t i on f r om Nepal of commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in coun- t r ies o ther th an Nepal or Ind ia also is p roh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution indu s t r ial requ i remen ts, wh i le the impo rt of other items is res t r ic ted or p roh ib i ted. The im p o rt p rog ram for the period ending March 31, 1977 contains a list of items, the impo rt of wh ich is not n o rm a l ly a l lowed, and a list of items, the impo rt of wh ich is allowed on a restricted basis, i.e., o n ly a p a rt of the r equ i r em ent is allowed to be impo r ted because of p a r t i al domes t ic a v a i l a b i l i t y. Even nonp e rm i s s ib le i t ems a re a l lowed up to specified l im i ts to a c t u al users, ag a in st th e ir l icenses for r aw m a t e r i a l s, and u n d er the im p o rt r e p l e n i s hm e nt scheme. L icens ing is in most cases on an a n n u al bas is. There are special procedures a p p l i c a b le to impo r ts of cap i tal goods, heavy e lec t r ical p l a n t, and goods impo r ted to f u l f i ll gove rnment con t rac ts and for i r r i g a t i on projects. Favored t r e a tm e nt in a l lo c a t ing fo r e ign exchange for impo r ts of cap i tal goods and equ ipm ent is given to ''select" indu s t r i e s. An impo rt r ep l en i sh- ment scheme enables registered expor ters to obtain specified raw m a t e r i a ls and o ther i tems needed for the ir export p r o d u c t i o n; these commod i t i es i n c l u de ce r ta in i tems whose impo rt o the rw ise is b a n n e d. In l icens ing impo r ts of a c a p i t al n a t u r e, t h e ir e s sen t ia l i ty, their po t en t i al for e a r n i ng or sav ing fo re ign exchange, and the a v a i l a b i l i ty of m e d i um - t e rm or long - te rm credits for f inanc ing such impo r ts a re t a k en i n to accoun t. Import licenses for m a c h i ne tools and o ther c ap i t al goods va lued at more t h an Rs 750,000 are not g ran ted u n t il I n d i an p roduce rs have been g iven an o p p o r t u n i ty by pub l ic adver t isement to supply them; licenses are issued on ly if offers by dome s t ic producers are dis- proportionately expensive or unaccep tab le for other reasons, or wh en no offers are received w i t h in 45 day s .7 Some cap i tal goods are allowed on the Open General List. In some cases, free impo r ts of m a c h i n e ry are perm i t ted up to a l im i t, i r respec t ive of ind ig enous av a i l- ability. Expo r t -o r ien ted i n d u s t r i es wh ich expo r ted 20 per cent or more of t h e ir p rodu c t ion in the past th ree years and unde r took to expo rt 20 per cent or more of their expanded production in the next five years are allowed to impo rt cap i tal goods up to a l im it of Rs 10 m i l l ion a year w i t h o ut ind igenous s c r u t i n y. Where a va l id import license is held, the requ ired exchange is released by an au tho r ized b a nk on presen ta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may m ake p a ym e n ts by op en ing le t te rs of c red it or by r em i t t i ng against sight d ra f t s. Advance rem i t- tances before sh ipp ing documen ts can be s u bm i t t ed are not no rm a l ly a l lowed; but in special cases, e.g.. impo r ts of mach ine ry and cap i tal goods, where deposits have to be made w i th overseas m a n u f a c t u r e r s, the Reserve Bank grants special au tho r i z a t ion for adv an ce p aym ent for a pa rt of the v a lue of the im p o r t. The impo rt of ce r ta in commod i t ies, i n c l u d i ng food- grains, ce r ta in oils and f a t s, a n um b er of ph a rm a c eu t i c al products, corkwood, raw cotton, raw j u t e, cashewnu ts, "For certain types of steel castings and fo rg ings, th is policy applies to all orders of more t h an Rs 50,000. INDIA most fer t i l izers, most nonferrous metals, and many ca tego r ies of steel is reserved for the Gove rnment or s ta te t r a d i ng en terpr ises, the most impo r tant of which a re the State T r a d i ng Co rpo ra t ion (STC ), the Ju te Corpora t ion of I n d i a, the Food Co rpo ra t ion of I n d i a, Sail I n t e r n a t i o n al L td ., and the M i n e r a ls and Me ta ls T r a d i ng C o r p o r a t i o n. In a d d i t i o n, impo r ts of n a t u r al rubb e r, s u l f ur p roduc ts, v i t am i n s, a nd an t ib io t i cs a re n o r m a l ly a r r a n g ed u n d er the ausp ices of the STC. B u lk im p o r ts of c e r t a in raw m a t e r i a ls t h at a re not reserved for the p u b l ic sector may also be a r r a n g ed by s ta te agenc ies, i n c l u d i ng t he I n d u s t r i al R aw M a t e r i a ls Ass is tance Cen t re ( I R M A C ). In add i t ion to any app l i c ab le impo rt d u t y, impor ts are sub ject to an a u x i l i a ry d u ty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad va lorem. Among the exemp t ions are foodgra ins, raw co t ton, t a l low, and books. Payments for Invisibles In gene ra l, p aym en ts abroad for i n v i s i b l es r e q u i re app rov a l. Foreign exchange is g ran ted f r e e ly for a few such p aym en t s, m a i n ly for expenses i n c i d e n t al to t r ade t r a n s a c t i o ns and t r a n s f e rs of r e c u r r i ng con t r a c tu al ob l iga t ion s. P r em iums on in su rance policies issued in fore ign c u r r e n cy to fo re ign n a t i o n a ls t em p o r a r i ly res ident in Ind ia may be paid in rupees or in the currency in w h i ch the po l icy is issued; I n d i an res iden ts are pro- h ib i ted from t a k i ng out l i fe in su rance policies in foreign cu r renc ie s. Branches of f o r e i gn b a n ks are not a l lowed to t r a n s f er abroad any p ro f i ts a r i s i ng f r om the sale of n o n b a n k i ng assets. P ro f it r em i t t a n c es by b ranches of fo re ign f irms, comp an i e s, and b a n ks r equ i re the pr ior app roval of the Reserve B a n k. R em i t t a n c es of d i v i d e n ds by I n d i an c om p a n i es to t h e ir n o n r e s i d e nt sha reho lde rs do not r equ i re p r ior Reserve B a nk app rov a l, provided t h at ce r ta in cond i t ions are me t. Otherwise there are no r e s t r i c t i o ns on the r em i t t a n ce of prof i ts, d i v i d e n d s, and in te re st to benef ic iar ies p e rm an en t ly res ident ou ts ide I n d ia (except any i n c ome a c c r u i ng to b en e f i c i a r i es of the N a t i o n al Defence R em i t t an ce Scheme ), provided t h at a ll c u r r e nt t ax and o ther l i a b i l i t i es in I n d ia have been c leared, except whe re such r e p a t r i a t i on r igh ts have been v o l u n t a r i ly s u r r e n d e r e d. However, r em i t- tances to I n d i an n a t i o n a ls who were g ran ted exchange f a c i l i t i es for em i g r a t i on on or a f t er J a n u a ry 1, 1963 but before A p r il 30, 1968, of pensions and d i v i d e n ds and in te re st on shares, secu r i t ie s, and deposits he ld in I n d ia are sub ject to an ove ra ll l i m it of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special d i rec t ions g iven to the person con- ce rned wh en he was g ran ted em i g r a t i on f a c i l i t i e s. For em ig r an ts who have been granted l u mp sum exchange f a c i l i t i es a f t er A p r il 30, 1968 on g rounds of h a r d s h i p, no rem i t tance of income is allowed. Foreign n a t i o n a ls t em p o r a r i ly res ident in I n d ia on account of t h e ir bu s ine s s, profess ion, or emp loym ent are p e rm i t t ed to m a ke reasonab le r em i t t an c es to t h e ir 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA own countries to pay insurance p rem iums, for the sup- port of their fam i l ie s, and for other expenses. Au tho r ized dealers may allow such rem i t tances by foreign na t iona ls, other than na t iona ls of the People's Republic of Ch ina, Pak is tan, and Rhodesia, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a m a x im um of Rs 2,500 a mon th (Rs 1,500 a mon th for na t iona ls of Bang lade sh ). Requests for the rem i t tance of larger amoun ts are con- sidered on the ir merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for fo re ign exchange for t ravel or educa- t ion abroad are considered on an ind iv idu al basis and requ ire the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, residents are per- mitted to travel abroad w i thout "P form" fo rma l i t ies provided they have not visited any place outside Ind ia, other than Bangladesh, Maldives, Mau r i t ius, Nepal, Seychelles, or Sri Lanka, du r ing the period of three years immed ia te ly preceding the date of the jou rney; if t rave l ing by Ind ian carrier on a round - t r ip ticket, they are en t i t led to foreign exchange up to US$100 or its equ iva len t. The scheme is applicable to all de s t ina- t ions except Bangladesh, Maldives, M au r i t iu s, Nepal, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka. Under the Mau r i t ius Travel Scheme, sub s t an t i a l ly the same fac i l i t ies are ava i lab le for travel to M au r i t ius and Seychelles, except th at any v i s i ts to M a u r i t i us or Seychelles w i th either a g rant of fo re ign exchange by the Reserve Bank or passage booked w i th the prior approval of the Reserve B a n k, as we ll as v is i ts to other coun tr ies und er the Foreign Travel Scheme, are to be ignored for de te rm in ing the traveler's e l ig ib i l i ty under the three-year ru le. There are no res t r ic t ions on t ravel to Bang ladesh and Nepa l, wh i le passages may be booked free ly for a ir t ravel f rom Mad ras, T i ru ch i r ap a l l i, or T r i v a n d r um to Colombo, Sri L a n k a, and f r om Tri- v a n d r um to Hu lu l e, Ma ld ives. The schemes men t ioned do not preclude access to other t ravel f a c i l i t i es ( f or purposes such as bus iness t ravel or a t t end an ce at con- fe rences or sem inars, e tc .) t h at may be approved under no rm al procedures. Foreign exchange for tou r i st t r a v e l, however, is not no rm a l ly g ran ted except u n d er the two schemes mentioned above. Travel agents and air- l ines and s team sh ip compan ies are not pe rm i t ted to book passage abroad for persons res ident in Ind ia (o ther t h an fo re ign n a t ion a ls tempo ra r i ly res ident in I n d i a) unless the t rave ler is eligible und er the Foreign Travel Scheme or the M a u r i t i us Travel Scheme, has been g ran ted t ravel exchange by the Reserve B a n k, or has been spec if ica l ly granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.8 Travel abroad to a t tend conferences is s P r ior permission to book passages abroad is not necessa ry, howeve r, for the fo l low ing: deck passengers to or f r om B u rm a, M a l a y s i a, Pakis- t a n, Singapore, S ri L ank a, Pers ian Gu lf por ts, or East A f r i c a; UN s ta ff membe rs and the ir f am i l i es whose t icke ts are pu r ch a s ed by or on ins t ruc t ion f rom UN agencies; s ta ff of a i r l i ne and s teamer compan ies t rave l ing on off ic ial d u t y, and f am i l i es of such s ta ff posted on d u ty abroad on a long - te rm basis; fo r e ign d i p l om a t ic personnel s t a t ion ed in Ind ia; fam i l ies of persons g a i n f u l ly emp loyed abroad p roceed ing to jo in the head of the f am i ly or persons g a i n f u l ly emp loyed abroad r e t u r n i ng to the ir coun t ry of emp loyment a f t er a v i s it to I n d i a, p r o v i d e d, the fa res are paid abroad; employees of Ind ian in su rance compan ies and 226 unres tr ic ted provided expenses are covered by the host in s t i tu t ion. Fares for nonres iden ts' journeys to and f rom Ind ia may be settled, w i thout Reserve Bank approva l, in rupees deb i ted to Non res ident (Ex terna l) Accounts. The export of I n d i an cu r r en cy notes and coins, except to Nepa l, is in general proh ib i ted. The fo l low ing is app l icab le to all I n d i an currency other than the develop- ment-oriented design coins of Rs 50, Rs 10, and 10 paise issued in 1974 and 1975. The export to Nepal of Ind ian cu r rency notes in d e n om i n a t i o ns of Rs 100 or higher is also p roh ib i ted. Deck passengers to Bu rm a, Malaysia, Singapore, Pers ian Gu lf ports, and East A f r ica and passengers to P ak i s t an or Sri L anka may take w i th them Rs 20 a person at any one t ime in Ind i an notes and coins (w i t h in the l im it of Rs 30 for I n d i an and foreign cu r rency notes c om b i n e d ). Residents proceeding to Bang ladesh for bus iness or p r iva te purposes may take w i th them I n d i an and fo re ign cu r rency notes and coins up to a comb ined to tal of Rs 20 a person a tr ip. Resi- den ts may take out fo re ign notes and co ins up to the equ iva lent of Rs 60 a person; exchange bureaus of au tho r ized dea lers and au tho r ized money changers at a i rpo r ts and seapor ts are pe rm i t ted to sell foreign cu r r en cy notes up to a v a l ue of Rs 60 a person to all passengers, w h e t h er I n d i an or fo re ign, but not to deck passengers or t r av e l e rs proceed ing to Bangladesh, B h u t a n, N ep a l, Pak i s tan, or Sri L ank a, or to foreign n a t i o n a ls who are t r a n s it passengers or passengers ho ld ing open-dated t icke ts ( i n c l u d i ng re tu rn tickets) issued ou ts ide Ind ia. Travelers to Pak is tan and Sri L a n ka and deck passengers to B u rm a, Ma lay s ia, Singa- pore, Pe r s ian Gu lf por ts, or East A f r i ca may take for- e ign cu r rency notes or coins up to the equ iva lent of Rs 30 a person. Non re s iden ts may t ake out the fore ign c u r r e n cy w h i ch they dec la red on e n t r y, less the amoun ts sold to au tho r ized dea le rs and au tho r ized money changers in Ind i a. A fo re ign t ravel t a x, at a u n i f o rm ra te of 12Vi per cent on first class and economy class fa re s, is payable whe re the f a re for an i n t e r n a t i o n al j o u r n ey is paid in I n d i an c u r r e n c y; t i c k e ts pa id for in f o r e i gn exchange a re exempt f rom the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export l icenses are r equ i r ed for on ly a few i tems, and most commod i t i es may be expor ted w i thout a license. Most of the con t ro l led commod i t ies are licensed freely to all sh ippers; a few may be exported th rough estab- l ished sh ippe r s; and a few commod i t ies are sub ject to b a n ks pos ted on d u ty ab road and t h e ir f am i l i e s; pe rsons emp loyed by f o r e i gn g o v e r nm e n t s, p r o v i d ed t he f a r es a re p a id a b r o a d; t r a v el between I n d ia and P a k i s t an by pe rsons h o l d i ng r e s t r i c t ed t r a v el documents issued by the H igh Comm i s s ion for P a k i s t an in I n d ia or Ind i a -P ak i s t an passpo r ts; a ir t r av el be tween M a d r a s / T i r u c h i r a p a l l i / T r i v a n d r um and Colombo, S ri L a n k a; a ir t r a v el b e tw e en T r i v a n d r um and Hu lu le, Ma ld ive s; and t r a v el be tween I n d ia and N ep al and be tween Ind ia and B ang l ad e sh. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution export quotas.9 Exports to N am i b ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and the Tibet region of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina are p roh ib i ted. Exchange con t rol is exercised over the proceeds of exports to coun tr ies o ther th an B h u t an and Nepa l. An exporter must declare that the f u ll export proceeds w i ll be received and dealt w i th in accordance w i th the prescription of cu r rency regu la t ions. Foreign exchange ho ld ings, i n c l u d i ng the proceeds of exports, mu st be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, un less the holder has been au thor ized by the Reserve Bank to re ta in them, or he is a fore ign national not permanen t ly resident in Ind ia and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be su r rende red w i t h in six mon ths of shipment or, if the goods are sold to A fgh an i s t an or Pakistan, w i th in three mon ths of sh ipmen t. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the s ix -mon th period where exports of cap i tal goods or eng in e e r ing goods are concerned. Some expor ts, in c lud ing coffee, g roundnu t s, and iron ore, are sub ject to export du t ies. Some others, i n c l u d i ng mica, tobacco, and h andwov en woolen carpets, are subject to m i n im um prices. A substantial number of exports, m a i n ly new m a n u f a c t u r es such as eng inee r ing goods, receive cash compensa tory suppo rt in l ieu of nonrefundable taxes and levies. An impo rt rep len ish- ment scheme provides p r e f e r en t i al impo rt l icens ing fac i l i t ies for p roduce rs of m a n u f a c t u r ed goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom inv i s ib les mu st be su r r end e r ed. There are special f a c i l i t i e s, however, wh ich allow persons of Ind i an n a t i o n a l i ty or or ig in who a re re s ident in Ex te rnal Account coun t r ies to m a i n t a in c e r t a in fo r e ign cu r rency accounts and Non re s ident ( E x t e r n a l) Accoun ts in India, ba lances on wh ich may be repa tr ia ted abroad without re fe rence to the Reserve B a n k. Schemes are in operation for the p r io r i ty a l l o tm e nt of passenger automobiles, motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against cer ta in inwa rd rem i t tances of fo re ign exchange. A ll b i l ls rendered by hotels to fo re ign tou r i s ts and to non res ident I n d i an n a t ion a l s, o ther t h an b i l ls rendered to n a t ion a ls of B i l a t e r al Account coun tr ies, Bhu tan, and Nepa l, and such o ther fo re ign n a t ion a ls and non res ident I n d i a ns as are spec i f ica l ly exempted from comp l iance w i th th is ru le by the I n d i an Govern- ment, must be collected by the ho te ls in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars (or t rave le rs checks expressed in those cu r r en c i e s ), or in any o ther conve r t ib le cu r rency. The import of I n d i an cu r r en cy notes and co ins is, in general, p roh ib i ted. However, deck passengers f r om Burma, M a l a y s i a, Singapore, Pe r s ian G u lf ports, and East A f r i c a, and t rave le rs f r om P ak i s t an and S ri L ank a, 9 The export of cer ta in commodities inc lud ing suga r, raw ju te, s i lve r, and seve ral c a t ego r i es of s teel is r e s e r v ed for the s t a te t r a d i ng enterprises. INDIA may impo rt i n to Ind ia Rs 20 a person aga inst presenta- t ion of ev idence that they p rev ious ly had exported th is am o u nt f r om I n d i a. Persons com ing to Ind ia f rom B u rm a, o ther t h an deck passengers, are allowed to b r ing in I n d i an cu r rency notes up to a v a lue of Rs 50 for an adu lt and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers f r om Nepal may b r ing in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign cu r rency notes may be b rought in to Ind ia w i t h o ut l im i t, provided that a dec lara t ion of the total am o u nt b rought in is made to the customs au tho r i t ies upon a r r ival if the va lue of fo re ign notes and co ins together w i th the v a l ue of the travelers checks brought in exceeds US$1,000 or its equ iva len t. Persons ho ld ing fo re ign cu r rency notes may sell them to any au tho r ized dea ler in fo re ign exchange or to any au thor- ized money changer. Capital Inw a rd c ap i t al t r an s f e rs are, in gene ra l, un res t r ic ted, but their subsequent u t i l iza t ion in Ind ia in most cases is subject to approval. Foreign inve s tmen t s, once adm i t t ed, a re e l ig ib le for the same t r e a tm ent that I n d i an en te rp r i ses receive. B a n ks in Ind ia may borrow f ree ly f rom the ir branches and co r responden ts abroad, provided that borrow ings in excess of Rs 2 m i l l i on are u t i l i z ed for the purchase of rupees f r om the Reserve Bank or in the in te rbank ma rket to f inance their normal business opera t ions in I n d i a; r ep aym ent of such borrow ings r equ i r es the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected on ly when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in I n d ia f r om the Reserve B a nk or any other bank. Fore ign bo r row ing by n o n b a nk Ind i an compan ies is sub ject to Reserve Bank app rova l; on ly in exceptional cases is p e rm i s s ion g ran ted for any loan which has not been ob t a in ed as an o f f i c i al or o f f i c i a l ly guaranteed c red it by the Cen t ral Gov e rnm en t. Reserve Bank permission is requ i red for i n i t i a t i n g, e x p a n d i n g, or c o n t i n u i ng in I n d ia any business ac t iv i ty or h o l d i ng or a c q u i r i ng shares of any company c a r r y i ng on a t r a d i n g, c omm e r c i a l, or i n d u s t r i al a c t i v i ty in Ind i a, by non re s iden t s, non c i t i z en s, nonbank companies not in co rpo r a t ed u n d er I n d i an law, and I n d i an compan ies w i th over 40 per cent non re s ident in te res t .10 The Reserve B ank w i ll a l low the la t ter compan ies to c o n t i n ue the ir a c t iv i t i es w i th a non r e s id ent e q u i ty of more t h an 40 per cent and up to 74 per cen t, d e p e n d i ng on the extent to wh ich the company is engaged in "core" indu s t ry or export-oriented produc t ion, or in m a n u f a c t u r i ng activi- 10 Pe rsons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r i g in who are resident in E x t e r n al A c c o u nt coun t r ies may invest f r e e ly in any pub l ic or p r iva te l i m i t ed c om p a ny and in any p a r t n e r s h ip or p rop r i e to r sh ip concern, i r respec t ive of the na tu re of its ac t iv i t ies, provided that the f u n ds r e q u i r ed a re e i t h er r em i t t ed f r om abroad th rough no rmal b a n k i ng ch ann e ls or a re d r awn f r om th e ir N o n r e s i d e nt ( E x t e r n a l) Accoun ts, and p rov id ed t h at an u n d e r t a k i ng is g iven that repa t r ia t ion of the c a p i t al inves ted or the p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds a r i s ing t h e r e f r om will not be a sked f o r. N o n r e s i d e nt I n d i a ns and persons of Ind i an o r ig in resid- ing abroad can also inve st in ce r ta in specified indu s t r i es up to 74 per cent of the ir new e q u i ty cap i ta l, and can f ree ly repa t r ia te such invest- m e nt and income t h e r e f r om a f t er d edu c t ion of applicable Ind i an taxes. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA ties which require sophisticated technology. Foreign companies can re ta in a 51 per cent non re s ident equ i ty as long as the ir combined core sector p roduc t ion, app l i- cation of sophisticated technology, and export produc- tion account for no less than 60 per cent of the ir a n n u al turnover, and a m in imum of 10 per cent of such t u r n- over is exported w i th in a period not exceed ing two years f rom the date of approval by the Reserve Bank of Ind ia. If their combined core sector p rodu c t ion, app l ica t ion of sophisticated technology, and export p roduc t ion account for no less than 75 per cent of the ir a n n u al tu rnove r, fore ign companies can re ta in a 74 per cent non re s ident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of a n n u al tu rnove r, irrespective of core produc t ion or technology involved w i ll also be allowed to operate w i th 51 per cent nonres ident equ i ty, and those which are able to guarantee a higher percentage of exports on a sustained basis would be eligible on me r i ts to operate with a higher percentage of nonres ident equ i ty. Com- panies which export 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonres iden ts. Compan ies that are engaged p redom inan t ly in t r ad ing activities or that are not meeting the other criteria listed above w i ll be required to reduce the ir fore ign sha reho ld ing to 40 per cent w i th in a specified period or convert the n a tu re of their activities to meet the above cr i ter ia or w ind up the ir activities in Ind ia. In exceptional cases, companies not meeting the criteria but wh ich have developed sk i l ls, expertise, or facilities, or use technologies not ind ig- enously available, may be permitted a more than 40 per cent foreign par t ic ipa t ion, provided that th is does not exceed 74 per cent. Branches of fo r e ign companies other than a ir l ines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases convert themselves in to Ind i an companies. All companies are subject to "d i lu t ion" fo rmu l a s, as fo l lows: companies w i th fore ign direct ho ld ings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through add i t ional equ i ty capital issued to Ind ians; for companies w i th foreign ho ld ings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent, and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the correspond ing p ropo r t ions are 33Vs per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new fore ign equity is permitted in companies engaged pre- dom inan t ly in in te rnal t rad ing and commerc ial activities. W i thout the permission of the Reserve B a n k, residents are prohibited f rom lend ing to, or depos i t ing money w i th, a nonbank f irm or company in wh ich the non- resident interest is more than 40 per cent. Nonc i t izens, non-Ind ian f i rms, and nonb ank Ind i an f i rms w i th more than 40 per cent fo re ign par t ic ipa t ion must ob ta in Reserve Bank permission in order to acqu i re, hold, t ran s fe r, or dispose of immovab le proper ty w i t h in Ind ia (except when a lease for a period of not more th an f ive years is invo lv ed ). Other non res iden ts in add i t ion to the above categories of persons and compan ies must ob ta in Reserve Bank permission to a l low the use of th e ir 228 t r ad em a rks by others for any con s ide ra t ion, and to o b t a in or c o n t i n ue emp loym ent in I n d ia as agent or techn ical or m an ag em ent adv i s er of I n d i an persons or companies. The pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank is also requ i red for a ll t r a n s f e rs of shares of I n d i an com- pan ies by non re s iden ts or fo re ign n a t i o n a ls to other persons, wh e th er re s ident or non re s iden t. Re s iden ts a re p r o h i b i t e d, except w i th Reserve Bank p e rm i s s ion, f r om eng ag ing in any t r a n s a c t i on wh ich increases beyond 49 per cent the non r e s id ent share of a bu s ine ss ou t s ide I n d ia in w h i ch the non r e s id ent in terest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also p roh ib i ted, except w i th Reserve B ank pe rm i s s ion, f r om ho ld ing, acqu ir ing, t r a n s f e r r i n g, or d i spo s ing of imm o v a b le p rope r ty outside Ind ia (except whe re a lease of not more t h an five years is i n v o l v e d ). Res iden ts also requ i re Reserve Bank approval for t r an s f e r r ing any interest in a business in I n d ia to a non re s iden t, a non c i t i z en, a n o n b a nk company not inco rpo ra ted und er I n d i an law, or an Ind ian com- p any w i th over 40 per cent f o r e i gn p a r t i c i p a t i o n. Fur- the rmo re, Reserve Bank approval is requ i red for res iden ts expo r t ing I n d i an secur i t ies to any place outside I n d ia and t r a n s f e r r i ng I n d i an secu r i t ies to nonres iden ts. Res iden ts a re p roh ib i ted —except w i th Cen t ral Govern- ment or Reserve B ank p e rm i s s ion — f rom gua ran tee ing the ob l iga t ion of a non re s ident or the obligation of a res ident in f avor of a non res iden t, and are also pro- h ib i t ed, except w i th Cen t ral Gove rnment permission, f r om assoc ia t ing w i th or p a r t i c ip a t ing in any business concern outside Ind i a. Cap i tal inves ted in approved projects a f t er J a n u a ry 1, 1950 by residents of o ther coun t r ie s, inc lud ing capital app rec ia t ion on the o r ig inal inv e s tm en t, may be repa- t r ia ted at any t im e. The pub l ic has been advised, how- ever, to ob ta in pr ior Reserve Bank approval before e f f e c t ing a sale wh ich invo lves repa t r ia t ion of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remit- ted in su i tab le i n s t a l lm e n t s, not exceeding fou r. The proceeds f rom l iqu ida ted fore ign inves tmen ts not eligible for r ep a t r i a t ion are blocked (see section on Nonres ident Accoun ts, a b o v e ). I n d i an n a t ion a ls ( i n c l u d i ng persons pe rmanen t ly resi- dent in I n d i a) are not no rma l ly granted any foreign exchange f a c i l i t i es for em ig ra t ion purposes. In cases of excep t ional ha rd sh ip, fo re ign exchange may be released up to a l im it of the equ iv a l ent of Rs 50,000 in one l u mp sum at the t ime of em ig r a t ion; the rema inder of the em ig r an t 's assets and income are blocked and no f u r t h er rem i t tance s, i n c l u d i ng pens ions, if any, are a l lowed. Foreign n a t i o n a ls who are t empo r a r i ly resident in I n d ia (o ther th an Bang ladesh, Ch inese, Pak is tan i, and Rhodes ian n a t i o n a l s) are pe rm i t ted at the t ime of their r e t i r em ent to t r a n s f er to the ir own coun t r ies the pro- ceeds f r om the sale of the ir inves tmen ts, subject to a l im it of Rs 100,000 for each f a m i ly at the t ime of retire- ment and the r em a i n d er in a n n u al ins ta l lmen ts not exceed ing Rs 50,000, provided th at the shares and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution securities concerned are quo ted on recognized stock exchanges in I n d i a; in a d d i t i o n, they may t r a n s f er a ll the ir cu r r ent r em i t t a b le assets in Ind i a. Bang ladesh nationals tempo ra r i ly resident in Ind ia are perm i t ted to t r a n s f er the ir c u r r e nt assets in f u ll and the sale proceeds of t h e ir c ap i t al assets up to a l i m it of Rs 50,000 for each f a m i ly at the t ime of th e ir r e t i r em e n t, and the r em a i n d er in a n n u al i n s t a l lm e n ts of Rs 20,000. There are no re s t r ic t ions on the impo rt in to Ind ia of Ind i an or fo r e ign secu r i t ies. The a c q u i s i t i o n, sale, t r an s- fer, export, or o ther disposal of fore ign securities requ i res app rova l. Persons res ident in I n d ia a re pe rm i t- ted to hold fo r e ign secu r i t ies t h at have been acqu i red in a m a n n er not i n v o l v i ng a breach of the I n d i an exchange con trol r e g u l a t i o n s; res iden ts, o th er t h an fo re ign n a t ion- als not pe rmanen t ly resident in Ind i a, who are private persons are not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted to purchase securi- ties or personal real es ta te ou t s ide Ind i a. Ind i an n a t i o n a ls res ident ab road and w i s h i ng to r e t u rn to Ind ia to t a ke up emp loyment or to set up sma ll indus- tr ial un i ts are upon app l ica t ion exemp ted, for a period of three years, f r om the r e q u i r em e nt th at any fo re ign currency balances in the ir possession be surrendered w i th in 30 days of a r r i v a l. As an a l t e r n a t i ve to ho ld ing such ba lances in the f o rm of fo re ign cu r rency, the holder may use the f u n ds for the impo r t, subject to import l icense, of e q u i pm e nt and c ap i t al goods, or, in small amoun ts, for personal requ i remen ts. Furthermore, these persons have the op t ion of su r r end e r ing the ir balances imm ed i a t e ly, w i th the r ight to reacqu i re them w i th in three yea rs in the event of the ir dec id ing to go back to a fo re ign coun t ry. Ba lances held in Non res ident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or Foreign Cu r rency (Nonresi- den t) Accoun ts in Ind ia by such persons as on the date of their re tu rn to India are also e l ig ib le for s im i lar re transfer or reconversion fac i l i t ie s. These va r ious f a c i l i- ties are not ava i lab le in respect of ea rn ings a r i s ing f r om emp loyment abroad w i th any Ind ian -owned o rgan iza t ion. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the m a n u f a c t u r e, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in var ious forms th rough a Gold Con trol A dm i n i s t r a t o r. There is a total ban on private possession of p r ima ry gold. Although there is no ban on possession of f in ished articles of gold ( in c lud ing co ins) previously declared, there is res tr ic t ion on the ir m a n u f a c t u re and f resh acqu is i t ion. There is no res tr ic t ion on the acqu is i t ion, disposal, or possession of gold o rn am en t s, except that holdings of such o rn am en ts (wh ich may be of any purity) above specified l im i ts must be declared. The consumption of gold by i n d u s t r i al users is regu la ted through permits and authorizations. Control is exer- cised over dealers and go ldsm i ths th rough a system of licensing. Gold r e f in ing is under state managemen t. The Government M i nt is licensed to accept tenders of INDIA gold for purposes of r e f in ing and conversion in to s t and a rd gold bars, for which s t r ict specifications as to f ineness, we igh t, d imen s ion s, and m a r k i n gs a re pre- scribed. Forward t rad ing in gold or silver is prohibited; expo r ts of s i lver and produc ts of s i lver are sub ject to quo ta re s t r ic t ion s. W i th the excep t ion of j ew e l ry c o n s t i t u t i ng the per- sonal e f fec ts of a t r a v e l e r, impo r ts of gold in any fo rm by residents other th an the mone ta ry authorities require spec ial a u t h o r i z a t i on f r om the Reserve Bank and a re not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed; in ce r ta in cases, however, jewe le rs a re pe rm i t ted to m a n u f a c t u re gold jewe l ry in bond f r om impo r ted gold, for expo rt purposes on ly. Exports of gold in any fo rm o ther t h an jewe l ry pro- duced in Ind ia for export and j ew e l ry con s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the mon e t a ry au tho r i- t ies. The export of gold o r n am e n ts and j ew e l ry to the B i l a t e r al Account coun t r i es and P a k i s t an is p roh ib i ted. Changes during 1976 February 1. Comme rc ial b anks were ins t ruc ted to prov ide in teres t-free advances to exporters, for up to 90 days, aga inst t h e ir d u ty d rawback e n t i t l em e n t s, w i th the Reserve Bank p rov id ing in te res t - f ree re f inance. February 12. The export du ty on j u te sack ing was abo l ished. February 12. The export du ty on coffee was increased f r om Rs 50 a q u i n t al to Rs 300 a q u i n t a l. February 12. Export duties of Rs 800 a ton and Rs 600 a ton were imposed on exports of g r o u n d n u ts in k e r n el and in sh e l l, respectively. March 8. The middle rate for sterling was changed to Rs 17.75 = <£ stg. 1. March 11. The m idd le ra te for s t e r l ing was changed to Rs 17.25 = £ stg. 1. April 1. The export of silver under open general license was suspended. April 3. The m idd le ra te for s t e r l i ng was changed to Rs 16.90 = £ stg. 1. April 5. Non res ident I n d i a ns and persons of I n d i an origin res id ing abroad were allowed to invest in certain specified i n d u s t r i es up to 74 per cent of t h e ir new e q u i ty cap i ta l. R e p a t r i a t i on of the cap i tal and in come t h e r e f r om wou ld be perm i t ted a f t er deduc t ion of app l icab le Ind i an taxes. April 14. The import policy for 1976/77 came into e f fec t. It genera l ly provides for a l ibe ra l iza t ion of imports, for a s imp l if ica t ion of import licensing proce- dures, and for add i t ion al incen t ives to exporters, as fo l lows: ( 1) A u t om a t ic l i c e n s i ng which w as in t roduced in 1975 was made more f lex ib le. A ll a c t u al users may ob ta in a license for the impo r ta t ion of raw ma te r ia ls and componen ts based on past con sump t ion or past licenses, wh ichever is lower, w i thout hav ing to go through the sponsor ing au tho r i t ies. But i n d u s t r i al un i ts 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA may exercise a choice between consumption and licenses issued between 1974/75 and 1975/76. In addition, the base for d e t e rm in ing the value of the import license was enlarged: it comprised the licenses issued on actual user basis, plus impo rt rep len ishment for export production (REP) licenses issued against their own exports, plus REP licenses obtained as nominee manu fac tu re rs. Small-scale un i ts were also made eligible for au toma t ic l icens ing; in add i t ion to the au toma t ic impo rt license covering the value of their past con- sump t ion or past licenses received, wh ichever was less, these u n i ts would receive a supp lemen ta ry allocation of 20 per cent over the va lue of the au toma t ic license. With some exceptions, all un i ts wh ich exported 20 per cent or more of their production d u r i ng 1974/75 or 1975/76 would receive au toma t ic licenses on the basis of actual consumption of imported raw ma te r ia ls and components du r ing 1974/75 or 1975/76 w i thout re fe r- ence to the va lue of previous impo rt licenses ob ta ined. Such un i ts would also be eligible for preferred sources of f i n a n c i ng for import of raw ma te r ia ls and compo- nen ts. (2) Apart f rom au toma t ic licenses, an enterprise appearing on the list of select indus tr ies need ing add i- t ional imports of raw ma te r ia ls and componen ts wou ld also be able to apply for supp lemen tary licenses, as in 1975/76. Industries not on this list could also apply for supp lemen ta ry licenses provided that the ir produc- t ion d u r i ng 1975/76 was severely affec ted by a shortage of raw ma ter ia ls. (3) As in 1975/76, REP licenses were permitted even for the impo r ta t ion of domes t ica l ly produced raw ma te r ia ls and components as long as the qua l i ty a n d / or the q u a n t i ty of the ind igenous subs t i tu te was not ade- qua te or its price was too high to m a i n t a in the com- petitiveness of the export product. New items were allowed for impo rt aga inst 129 export products; a higher impo rt rep len ishment en t i t lement was given to 83 export products, and 46 new export products were added to the list of exports q u a l i f y i ng for import replenishment. In addition, a manu fac tu rer engaged in export production could utilize the en t ire import replenishment en t i t lement for the impo rt of mach ine ry required for replacement and modern iza t ion. Previ- ously, there were l im i ts up to which such goods could be impor ted aga inst REP licenses. (4) Except for small-scale un i ts and for un i ts which have not completed five years in produc t ion, un i ts engaged in certain specified indus t r ies whose export pe r fo rmance was below stipulated l im i ts (of 5 per cent and 10 per cen t) du r ing 1974 /75 or 1975 /76 were liable to a 10 per cent reduc t ion in the ir allocation of imported raw materials and componen ts d u r i ng 1976/77. (5) For established importers, the m i n im um va lue of licenses was raised f rom Rs 1,250 to Rs 1,500. Their 230 quotas for drugs and medicines were raised f rom IVi per cent to 10 per cent, and those for motor vehicle and tractor parts, machine tools, and diesel engine parts were increased by 20 per cent. (6) A n um b er of items were no longer required to be channeled th rough specified agencies. In addition, 43 ''channelized" items were to be supplied direct to ac tual users by the channe l ing agencies without any release orders f rom the licensing au thor i ty. Actual users could app ly direct to the ch ann e l ing agencies ind ica t ing the ir requ i remen ts for a period not exceeding 12 months and c e r t i f y i ng that these were required for use in their own un i t s. The respective ch ann e l ing agency must respond w i t h in 45 days as to whether it would be in a position to supply the item w i th in a six-month period or any other m u t u a l ly accepted delivery schedule, which- ever was later, provided that satisfactory financial a r rangemen ts had been made. If the agency was unable to f u l f i ll the contract, the actual user could apply for the issue of a direct license. (7) The list of cap i tal goods for which ind iv idual en t rep reneu rs were not required to issue advertisements to n o t i fy domes t ic m a n u f a c t u r e rs before app ly ing for impo rt licenses was en larged. In add i t ion, import of m a ch in e ry requ ired by the leather indu s t ry but not produced domes t ica l ly was allowed on the open general l icense up to March 3 1, 1977. (8) Impo r ts of 91 raw ma te r ia ls and components for export p roduc t ion were exempted f r om customs duty aga inst advance licenses issued to registered exporters. ( 9) Actual users were also permitted to import items not inc luded in the ir impo rt licenses of a va lue not exceed ing 5 per cent of the face value of the license — up to a m a x im um of Rs 50,000 an item —provided such i tems were requ i red by them for produc t ion in th e ir fac to ry. For some specific i tems, such as tool and a l loy steel and drugs, the impo rt va lue must not exceed 2 per cent of the impo rt l icense up to a m a x im um of Rs 25,000. For the m a n u f a c t u re of profess ional elec- t r o n ic e q u i pm e n t, the import of a proh ib i ted item would be allowed up to 10 per cent of the f a ce v a lue of the import license, up to a m a x im um of Rs 100,000. Previ- ously, on ly select indu s t r i es were perm i t ted to import p roh ib i ted i tems. ( 1 0) F i f t y - n i ne impo rt i tems (m a i n ly steel items, chem ica ls, med ic ines, and m a c h i n e r y) were placed on the l i st of i tems wh ich were allowed to be imported sub ject to spec ial c lea rance at the t ime of the announce- m ent of the impo rt policy for 1976 /77. For export houses, the b ann ed list of impo rt i tems was increased f r om 94 to 101. Impor ts of 88 i tems (m a i n ly steel i tems, chem ica ls, med ic ines, and m a ch in e ry) were made sub ject to face -va lue res t r ic t ions. However, for small- scale u n i t s, re s t r ic t ions on m a ny i tems were relaxed. In add i t ion, res tr ic t ions were l i f t ed on 30 i tems (ma in ly me tal products, chem ica ls, spec if ied t ires, and tubes) th at were p rev ious ly on the banned l is t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 15. Foreign companies, which were hitherto required to d i lu te their fore ign equ i ty ho ld ing to 40 per cent, were allowed to re ta in a ma jo r i ty share of 51 per cent or more und er the Foreign Exchange Regu la- tion Act depending on the extent to which such com- panies are engaged in core indu s t ry produc t ion, in activities requiring sophisticated technology, or in export production. Foreign companies can re ta in a 51 per cent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated technology, and export production account for no less t h an 60 per cent of their annu al turnover. Fu r the rmo re, such compan ies would be requ i red to export a m i n i m um of 10 per cent of their annu al turnover w i th in a period not exceeding two years f rom the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector produc t ion, appli- cation of sophisticated technology, and export produc- tion account for no less than 75 per cent of their annual turnover, fo re ign compan ies can retain a 74 per cent nonresident ownership. Companies w i th exports exceed- ing 40 per cent of the ir tu rnove r, irrespective of core production or the technology involved, will also be allowed to operate with a non res ident equ i ty of 51 per cent, and those that are able to gua ran tee a higher percentage of exports on a sus ta ined basis would be eligible on merits to operate w i th a higher percentage of nonres ident equ i ty. Companies which export 100 per cent of produc t ion may be who l ly owned by non- residents. If none of the above -men t ioned cond i t ions are met, the non res ident equ i ty mu st be reduced to 40 per cent. April 22. The r em a i n i ng export du t ies on m anu f a c tu r es were abolished. April 23. The m idd le rate for s te r l ing was changed t o Rs 16.50 = <£ stg. 1. May 1. An ad hoc quo ta was imposed and the rate of export du ty was increased on sem i f in ished leather exports. The quota for 1976 /77 was set on May 7. May 13. It was announ c ed that the ta r i ff p re fe rence a f fo rded to some B r i t ish goods wou ld be w i thd r awn in two stages. On Ju ly 1, 1976 the d i f fe rence between the s tandard ra te of impo rt d u ty and the B r i t i sh p re fe ren t ial rate would be reduced by 75 per cent. The r em a i n i ng 25 per cent of the d i f f e r en ce between the two rates would be e l im ina ted on Ju ly 1, 1977. May 29. The m idd le ra te for s te r l ing was changed to Rs 16.00 = <£ stg. 1. June 17. The export du ty on coir y a rn was abo l ished. June 17. Ind ia, Bangladesh, Korea, and Sri Lanka negotiated m u t u al p r e f e r e n t i al t a r i ff cuts a f fec t ing approximately US$25 m i l l ion in annu al trade. The average t a r i ff cut nego t ia ted was between 25 per cent and 50 per cent. June 23. It was announced that w i th effect f rom July 15 the private sector m ight participate in trade between Ind ia and Pak i s tan. ju te INDIA July I. Ind ia withdrew 75 per cent of the t a r i ff preferences extended to the Un i ted K ingdom u n d er the U .K .-Ind ia Trade Agreement of 1939 (wh ich had exp ired on Feb rua ry 1, 1973 ). The final w i t h d r aw al of the r em a i n i ng preferences would take effect on Ju ly 1, 1977. July 6. The ceilings on d iv idend paymen ts by both I n d i an and f o r e i gn compan ies were abolished. July 14. The export of selected g r o u n d n u ts was b ann ed. July 24. The im p o rt of ce l lu lo s ic s tap le fiber was a l lowed on a l ib e r al basis for ac tual users. Licenses were to be issued for the am o u nt reques ted. August 2. The Ind ian Tariff Act of 1934 and the Ind i an Ta r i ff (Am e n dm e n t) Act of 1949 were replaced by the Customs Tar iff Act of 1975, which is based on the Brussels t a r i ff nom en c l a tu re system, w i th the rates of du ty ma in ta ined at approximately the same level. August 26. It was announced tViat silver exports \yy private traders would no longer be permitted; hence- fo r th, such exports wou ld be hand led exc lu s ive ly by the State T rad ing Corporation, and would be subject to an a n n u al c e i l ing. September 21. The m i d d le rate for s te r l ing was changed to Rs 15.40 = £, stg. 1. September 29. The m idd le rate for s te r l ing was changed to Rs 14.70 = £ stg. 1. October 1. It was announ c ed that impo r ts of capital goods wou ld be l ibe ra l ized in order to mod e rn i ze I n d i an i n d u s t ry and open the Ind i an capital goods i n d u s t ry to fo r e ign compe t i t ion. Free impo r ts of m a ch in e ry are to be perm i t ted up to a l i m i t, irrespec t ive of ind igenous a v a i l a b i l i t y. Expor t-or ien ted i n d u s t r i es wh ich exported 20 per cent or more of the ir produc t ion in the past three years and under took to export 20 per cent or more of the ir expanded p roduc t ion in the next f ive years w i ll be a l lowed to impo rt cap i tal goods f r e e ly up to a l im it of Rs 10 m i l l i on a year w i thout ind ig enous s c ru t iny. October 12. The customs duties on high-density and low -d en s i ty po lye thy lene were reduced f r om 75 per cent to 25 per cent and 45 per cent, respectively. October 21. A protocol between I n d ia and Poland on the program of trade deve lopment for the period 1977-80 was signed. November 6. The export du ty on coffee was raised f r om Rs 300 a q u i n t al (es tab l ished on February 12) to Rs 1,300 a qu in ta l. November 8. The Reserve Bank announced the resump t ion of fo rwa rd t rad ing in sterling, U.S. dollars, deutsche m a r k, and yen, wh ich had been suspended on October 26. The forward purchases in s ter l ing were r e sum ed at the rates p r ev a i l ing at the t ime of their suspension on October 26. November 9. The ban on exports of g roundnu ts in shell and kernel was l if ted. Exports were allowed w i t h in l im i t ed ceilings. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA November 13. Export duties on g roundnu ts in ker- nel and in shell were raised from Rs 800 a ton and Rs 600 a ton (established on February 1 2) to Rs 1,500 a ton and Rs 1,125 a ton, respectively. November 22. The import of polyester staple fiber was "dechannelized" and placed under the free licensing scheme. Licenses were to be issued to actual users in the amount requested. November 22. The impo rt of perm iss ib le spare parts was placed on open general license. December 24. The m idd le ra te for s te r l ing was changed to Rs 15.20 = £ stg. 1. December 27. The import of 23 i ron and steel items was placed on open general license. December 31. The im p o rt of 33 chem ical i t ems was placed on open general license. December 31. The b i l a t e r al paymen ts a r rangement w i th Egypt expired. December 31. The b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts agreement w i th the Sudan exp ired. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Nonresident Accounts There a re no re s t r ic t ions on the o p e n i ng by fo re ign n a t i o n a ls of accoun ts in I n d o n e s ia in r u p i a hs or fo re ign c u r r e n c i es w i th au tho r i z ed f o r e i gn exchange bank s. No d i s t i n c t i on is made be tween res ident and non- r e s id ent accoun t s. No checks, however, can be w r i t t en on fo r e ign c u r r e n cy a c coun t s; w i t h d r aw a ls r e q u i re t h at a l e t t er be sent to the b a n k. Imports and Import Payments There is a reg i s t ry of a u t h o r i z ed im p o r t e rs and an i n i t i al depos it is requ i red for r e g i s t r a t i o n. Since Octo- b er 3 1, 1968, on ly I n d o n e s i an n a t i o n a ls m ay o b t a in an im p o r t e r 's l icen se, but c e r t a in es tab l ished f o r e i gn f i rms have been en ab l ed to r e t a in t h e ir l icenses and new fo r e ign inv e s to rs can ob t a in an impo r te r 's l icense r e s t r i c t ed to the im p o rt of m a t e r i a ls r equ i r ed for t h e ir own p ro jec ts. Impo r ts f r om Ango l a, Rhode s ia, and South A f r i ca a re p roh ib i t ed, as a re impo r ts f r om a ll sources of any s e condh and goods and of spec i f ied c omm o d i t i e s. The l a t t er i n c l u de b u i l t - up sedans a nd s t a t i on wagon sedans; componen ts for the assembly of luxu ry - type auto- mob i l e s; b u i l t - up c omm e r c i al veh ic les and mo torcyc les; r a d io and t e l ev i s ion sets in b u i l t - up or sem iknocked- down c o n d i t i o n; b u i l t - up a ir c o n d i t i o n e r s, r e f r ig e r a to r s, and e l e c t r ic s ew ing mach ine s; sarongs; g a lv an i z ed i ron sheets; i ron roo f ing shee ts; mo squ i to s t i c k s; ma tches; m o n o s o d i um g l u t am a t e; ma t t re s se s; c e r t a in types of cotton y a r n; and specified types of textiles, car tires, b a t t e r i e s, p r i n t ed m a t t e r, off ice supp l ie s, a n im al t r ap s, bo t t l e s, and l am ps and bu lb s. The im p o r t i ng of cloves, f e r t i l i z e r s, r ice, re f ined suga r, and wh e at and wheat f lour is re s t r ic ted to spec if ied app roved impo r t e r s. Im p o r ts of c e r t a in c omm o d i t i es for the "n a t ion al i ron s tock" a re reserved for s ta te e n t e r p r i s e s; they c u r r e n t ly i n c l u de c em e n t, n ew s p r i n t, c e r t a in types of paper and a u t om o b i le t i r e s, a sph a l t, cotton w e a v i ng y a r n, sheet i r o n, conc re te i r o n, r aw m a t e r i a ls f or m a r i t i me i n d u s- t r i e s, and p h a rm a c e u t i c al raw m a t e r i a l s. No licenses a re r e q u i r ed f or impo r t s. In p r i n c i p l e, a ll p e rm i t t ed im p o r ts may be pa id for e i th er w i th gene ral exchange (Devisa Unuim) or aid exchange (Devisa Exchange Rate System No par v a lue for the I n d o n e s i an R u p i ah has been es tab l ished w i th the F u n d. In the J a k a r ta fo r e ign exchange Bourse, t r a n s a c t i o ns in U.S. d o l l a rs have s ince Augu st 23, 1 9 71 been e f f e c t ed at r a t es w i t h in 1 per cent either side of R p 4 15 per U S $ 1; on December 3 1, 1976 t he b u y i ng a nd s e l l ing ra tes we re R p 4 14 a nd R p 4 1 6, respec t ive ly, per US$1. Ex ch ange ra tes for o ther currenc ies are d e t e rm i n ed on the basis of the J a k a r ta rates for the U.S. d o l l a r, the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y, and rates for the c u r r e n c i es con c e rn ed in i n t e r n a t i o n al m a rk e t s. In the J a k a r ta f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge Bou rse t h r ee c a l ls for exchange a re conduc ted each week u n d er the m a n- agement of B a nk I n d o n e s i a. B i d d i ng for ex ch ange in the call is restricted to the au tho r ized fo re ign exchange banks and l icensed f o r e i gn exchange d e a l e r s. B a nk Indones ia is c omm i t t ed to deal w i th any w i l l i ng buy er or seller at the go ing ra te. R e p r e s e n t a t i v es of the fo re ign exchange b a n ks n o t i fy B a nk I n d o n e s ia of t h e ir supply to the m a r k et and each p re sen ts a b id for the total of h is b ank 's r e q u i r em e n ts at a p a r t i c u l ar ra te. Bank Indone s ia clears the m a rk et at the i n t e r v e n t i on rate. The Bank also o f fe rs a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks c e r t a in f a c i l i t i es for f o rw a rd con t r a c ts in respect of a id exchange and for swap t r a n s a c t i o ns in U.S. do l la rs. Sabang is e n t i r e ly o u t s i de the I n d o n e s i an exchange and t rade con t rol sy s tem ,1 but the I n d o n e s i an r u p i ah is legal t e n d er the re. Administration of Control The im p l em e n t a t i on of exchange and t r a de c o n t r ol is en t ru s ted to B ank I n d o n e s i a, the M i n i s t ry of Trade, the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e, au tho r ized f o r e i gn exchange banks, and the cus toms au tho r i t i e s. Exchange con t rol is adm in is te red by B ank Indones ia and the M i n i s t ry of Finance. Exporters' licenses are issued by the Depa r t- ment of Trade offices in p r o v i n c i al cap i ta l s. Prescription of Currency Payments and rece ip ts m u st be e f fec ted th rough the authorized b anks and a re n o rm a l ly effec ted in con- vertible cu r renc ies. Export proceeds mu st be received in specified cu r renc ies .2 Indones ia has no ope ra t ive paymen ts agreemen ts .8 1W i th the excep t ion t h at the p r o h i b i t i on on im p o r ts of c e r t a in au to- mobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 2 Aus t ra l ian dollars, A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, B e lg i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an dollars, Danish k ron e r, deu tsche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, Hong Kong dollars, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese y en, M a l ay s i an r i n g g i t, N e t h e r l a n ds guilders, New Zea land do l la r s, No rw eg i an k r o n e r, P o r t u g u e se escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. dollars. 3 Indonesia ma in ta ins an inope ra t ive b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reement with the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina INDONESIA credit," 4 but otherwise sight banke rs' letters of credit are required for all private sector impo r ts w i th the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a v a lue not exceeding US$100, and impor ts spec if ica l ly au tho r ized by the M in i s t ry of Trade (such as goods con s t i tu t ing part of a fo re ign i n v e s tm e n t ). A r u p i ah deposit of 100 per cent of the am o u nt of the letter of c red it must be lodged w i th B ank Indones ia when a le t ter of cred it is opened in respect of impo r ts f inanced w i th a id exchange; for impo r ts f inanced w i th general exchange, impo r te rs are requ i red to make an advance depos it of at least 40 per cent of the letter of c red it v a lue when they subm it app l ica t ions for le t te rs of c red it to au tho r ized banks, and to settle the ba lance w i t h in 75 days of the op en ing of the le t ter of c red i t. A p p l i c a t i o ns to fo re ign exchange banks for impo r ts u n d er m e r ch ant le t ters of cred it mu st be accompan ied by a deposit of 25 per cent of the v a lu e. The deposits a re released to the im p o r t er o n ly a f t er the i s su an ce by a ' f o r e i gn exchange b ank of the KPP ( c e r t i f i c a te of impo rt d e c l a r a t ion) or wh en he presen ts co r respondence f r om supp l ie rs i n d i c a t i ng that the m e r ch ant l e t t er of c r ed it has been cance led. The am o u nt of the deposit a g a i n st le t ters of c red it for n o n g o v e r nm e nt impo r ts f inanced w i th a id exchange is l e ft to the d i sc re t ion of the au tho r i z ed b a nk if the l a t t er purchases a id ex ch ange f o rw a rd f r om B a nk Indones ia .5 Impo rt du t ie s, wh ich a re a lmost w i t h o ut excep t ion ad v a l o r em, are imposed on f ixed pr ices d e t e rm in ed by the M i n i s t e rs of Trade, I n d u s t r y, and F inance on the rec- omm e n d a t i on of a Fixed Price Team. Fixed prices are set to reflect c . i . f. prices and are changed when pr ices ab road d i f f er by more t h an 10 per cent f r om the f ixed pr ices for the p reced ing th ree mon th s. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are lev ied on most im p o r ts on t h e ir c. & f. v a l ue p lus im p o rt d u t y. I t ems wh ich a re ex empt f r om impo rt du t i es a re also exempt f r om sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not res tr ic ted or sub ject to con t ro l. Proceeds f r om i n v i s i b l es need not be su r r end e r ed. Trave lers m ay t a ke out and b r i ng in any am o u nt in fo r e ign b ankno t es but only Rp 2,500 in Indon e s i an notes and co ins other t h an gold and s i lver comm emo r a- t ive co in s; Indon e s i an c omm em o r a t i ve gold and s i lv er co ins issued in Augu st 1970 may be t ak en out f r e e ly 4 A m e r c h a nt l e t t er of c r ed it is a p a ym e n ts f o rm p r o v i d i ng for sho r t- t e rm supp l ie r s' c r e d i t. It is not a banke r 's l e t t er of c r ed it and c a r r i es no c omm i tm e n ts on the p a rt of the b a nk t h r o u gh wh i ch it is opened. 5 In cases whe re ca tegor ies of goods have been i d e n t i f i ed as "h av ing met domes t ic d em a nd s u f f i c i e n t l y ." new r e q u i r em e n ts w e re imposed e f f e c t ive J a n u a ry 1, 1977. These in c lud ed the i n t r o d u c t i on of a 100 per cent impo rt deposit at the t ime of op en ing of le t te rs of c r e d i t, a r e q u i r em e nt t h at a financial g u a r a n t ee am o u n t i ng to 100 per cent of the v a l ue of the l e t t er of c red it be blocked in the impo r t e r 's account u n t il comp le t ion of cus toms p rocedu re ( t h is deposit w i ll r ev e rt to the G o v e r nm e nt in case of "physical or a dm i n i s t r a t i ve sm u g g l i n g " ), a 100 per cent advance p aym ent of impo rt d u ty at the t ime of op en ing of the le t ter of c red i t, and p roh ib i t ions on the use of m e r c h a nt l e t t e rs of c red i t. Most v a r i e t i es of tex t i le s, po lyes ter fibers, conc re te i ron p rodu c t s, and g u n ny bags are sub ject to these prov is ions. 234 up to Rp 65,000 a person, w h i le the l im it applicable to gold and s i lver coins issued in October 1974 is Rp 130,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Ango la, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted, as are exports to all coun t r ies of gold ore and pu re gold; clove seeds; pepper seeds; fer t i l izers; raw- h ides of ca t t le; ce r ta in categories of unprocessed or low -qua l i ty rubbe r; ce r ta in logs and t imb e r; all types of was te paper ( f r om Java and M a d u r a ); scrap of bronze and copper (except f r om I r ian J a y a ); iron scrap; and scrap of steel ( f r om J av a, M adu r a, and S um a t r a ). The pr ior au tho r i z a t ion of the M in is ter of Trade is r equ i r ed for the export of flatbark crepe, c in chona b a rk, s i lve r, and a n t i q u es of cu l tu r al value. O therw ise, a ll commod i t ies may be f ree ly exported by registered p r iv a te f i rms and state t r a d i ng f i rm s. A ll exporters except c e r t a in m i n i ng compan ies and l icen sed "border-crossing" t rade rs mu st requ i re their buy e rs to open a b a nk le t ter of credit cove r ing the v a l ue of the goods to be expo r ted. For ce r ta in m inor expo r ts, i n c l u d i ng h a n d i c r a f t s, the expo r ter must sur- render the f u ll fo r e ign exchange v a lue pr ior to ship- m e nt if the re is no banke r 's le t ter of cred i t /' For the p r i n c i p al export commod i t i es o ther t h an pe t ro leum, the sales price mu st not be lower t h an " ind ica t ion" prices ("check" p r ices) d e t e rm i n ed pe r iod ica l ly by the M i n i s t er of Trade. The f u ll proceeds f r om exports o ther t h an pe t ro leum, p roduc ts of c e r t a in m i n i ng com- p an i e s, and goods expo r ted by licensed "border-crossing" t r ad e rs a re sub ject to s u r r e n d er (except in "border- crossing" t rade, see b e l ow ). Expo r ts of copra cake, sawn t im b e r, h id e s, rubb e r, co f fee, p a lm ke rne l s, pa lm o i l, peppe r, and a few o ther commod i t i es a re sub ject to a 5 per cent t a x, and the m a j or m i n e r al produc ts and u n s awn t im b er to a 10 per cent t ax. Ce r ta in commod i t i es produced in bo rder reg ions may be expo r ted to M a l a y s ia and the P h i l i p p i n es in exchange for c e r t a in e l ig ib le goods. In t h is "border-crossing" t r a de w i th M a l a y s i a, the v a l ue of impo rt or export s h i pm e n ts m u st not exceed M$600 a m o n t h, if t r an s- po r ted o v e r l a n d, and M$600 a s h i pm e n t, if t r an spo r t ed by sea: for the P h i l i p p i n e s, the v a lue of impo r ts or expo r ts mu st not exceed the r u p i ah or peso e q u i v a l e nt of US$150 for a s ing le t r ip if t r an spo r t ed by sea-go ing vessel or US$1 ,500 if t r a n s p o r t ed by boa t. Capital Fore ign c a p i t al inve s ted in Indon e s ia is governed p r im a r i ly by the Foreign C a p i t al I n v e s tm e nt Law of J a n u a ry 10, 1967, as am end ed in Augu st 1970, and by P r e s i d e n t i al Gu id e l in es issued on J a n u a ry 22, 1974 and Sep tember 21, 1974. In p r i n c i p l e, such inv e s tm en ts may be u n d e r t a k en o n ly th rough a j o i nt v e n t u re w i th li The re a re s e p a r a te a r r a n g em e n ts for expo r ts of o rch id s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an I n d o n e s i an p a r tn e r. A ll inves tmen ts in Indon e s ia r equ i re the a p p r o v al of the Inve s tment C o o r d i n a t i ng B o a rd ( B K P M ). En t e rp r i s es that are w h o l ly or l a rg e ly op e r a t ed in Indon e s ia as separate business un i ts must be i n c o r p o r a t ed u n d er Indon e s i an l aw a nd must have th e ir d om i c i le in I n d o n e s i a. T he o p e r a t i ng p e rm it for fo r e ign inve s tment is u s u a l ly v a l id for a m a x i m um of 30 yea rs. A m o ng the indu c em en ts offered are e x em p t i on f r om, or r e d u c t i on i n, c o r p o r a te and d i v i d e nd taxes for a c e r t a in n um b er of yea rs. Inves tors are g ran ted the r ight to t rans fer profits (a f ter se t t lement of taxes and financial ob l ig a t ions in I n d o n e s i a) a nd to m ake transfers r e l a t i ng to expenses conn e c t ed w i th the em p l o ym e nt of fo r e ign na t iona ls in I n d o n e s i a, a nd in respect of d e p r e c i a t i on a l lowances after the e x p i r a t i on of the tax h o l i d ay f r om c o r p o r a t i on tax. T he l aw p rov ides that no t rans fer p e rm it s h a ll be issued for c a p i t al r e p a t r i a t i on as l o ng as the inves tmen ts benefit f r om tax re l ie f; at present, howeve r, fo r e ign paymen ts do not r equ i re a t rans fer p e rm i t. T he e x p l o r a t i on and d ev e lopm ent of p e t ro l eum resources are gov e rn ed by the P e t r o l e um L aw of 1960. A spec ial reg ime app l ies to en terpr ises p r e v i o u s ly n a t i o n a l i z ed but n ow res to red to the o r i g i n al owne r s. S u ch en terpr ises are a l l ow ed tax h o l i d a ys for a p e r i od of three years on new c a p i t al in fo r e ign c u r r e n cy b rought in w i t h in the con text of r e h a b i l i t a t i on and expan s ion p rog r ams that have been a p p r o v ed by the G o v e r nm e n t. T he t ran s fer of proceeds f r om the sale of the assets of those res to red en terpr ises w h i ch ceased ope ra t ions c o u ld take p lace w i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the proceeds each yea r, w i th a f u ll guaran tee as to th e ir va lue in fo re ign cu r r en cy. T he t rans fer of proceeds f r om the sale of assets of en terpr ises whose p e r i od of o p e r a t i on has exp i red or whose ope ra t ions have been t e rm i n a t ed by the G o v e r nm e nt is a l l ow ed at the rate of one fifth a year effective f r om the t ime of the sale of assets. T h is transfer is gua ran teed as to its v a lue in fo r e ign c u r r e n c y. A D e bt Inves tment C o n v e r s i on Scheme ( D I C S) exists for the benefit of fo r e ign c r ed i to rs h o l d i ng nongu a r an t e ed c la ims against Indon e s i a. R u p i a hs c o v e r ed by the Scheme are a dm i n i s t e r ed in two k i n ds of D I C S - R u p i ah A c c o u n t s, A and B, the f o rm er r e l a t i ng o n ly to c l a ims of w h i ch the c r e d i t or is the first h o l d e r. P r i v a te c r e d i­ tors w i l l i ng to accept the terms of the Scheme a nd p repa red to m ake inves tmen ts und er the F o r e i gn C a p i t al Inves tment L aw of 1967 are p a id in rup i ahs in settle­ ment of t h e ir c l a im s. The se c l a ims are t ran s fe rab le to other po t en t i al inves to rs in Indon e s i a, but o n ly the o r i g i n al c r ed i to r 's D I CS rup i ahs m ay be used, in the c red i to r 's o wn projects that have been a p p r o v ed u n d er the F o r e i gn C a p i t al Inves tment L aw of 1967, for the purchase of fo re ign exchange for the im p o rt of eq u ip­ ment and r aw m a t e r i a ls necessary for the es tab l ishment and o p e r a t i on of those p ro jec ts. T h e re are no l im i t a t i o ns on the r em i t t an ce to Indones ia of c a p i t al in the f o rm of fo r e ign exchange or in c omm o d i t i e s. B o th res iden ts and non res iden ts INDONESIA m ay h o ld f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy depos i ts w i th fo r e ign exchange b a n k s. H o w e v e r, f o r e i gn exchange b ank s, n o n b a nk financial in s t i tu t ion s, a nd p r i v a te c om p a n i es are subject to B a nk I nd on e s ia d i r e c t iv es w i th respect to b o r r o w i ng a b r o a d, the accep tance of depos i ts f r om non re s iden t s, a nd the issuance of cer t if ica tes of depo s it to non re s iden t s. A 30 per cent reserve r e q u i r em e nt is a p p l i c a b le to the f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy l i a b i l i t i es of f o r e i gn exchange b a n k s; no depo s it r equ i r em en ts are a p p l i c a b le to the fo r e ign b o r r ow i n gs of n o n b a nk financial i n s t i t u­ t ions or p r iv a te c om p a n i e s. C e r t a in b o r r o w i ng a b r o ad is subject to c l e a r an ce by B a nk Indon e s i a, a nd a ll f o r e i gn b o r r ow i ng is subject to r e p o r t i ng to B a nk I n d o n e s ia a n d / or the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. T he p r i or a p p r o v al of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce is r e q u i r ed be fo re any p u b l ic en te rp r i se or p u b l ic sec tor b o dy m ay accept a l o an f r om a b r o a d. Indon e s i an c i t izens a nd residents of fo re ign n a t i o n a l­ i ty m ay free ly t rans fe r, nego t ia te, im p o r t, a nd e x p o rt secu r i t ies d e n om i n a t ed in rup i ahs or in fo r e ign c u r r e n c y. Gold Indon e s ia has issued s ix c omm em o r a t i ve g o ld c o i n s, w h i ch are legal tende r. Re s iden ts m ay f ree ly pu rcha se, h o l d, and se ll g o ld a nd g o ld c o i ns in I n d o n e s i a. E x p o r ts of g o ld ore and pure g o l d, unless made by or on b e h a lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s, are p r o h i b i t ed by v i r t ue of D e c i s i on N o. 6 8 / K P / I V / 70 of A p r il 17, 1970 of the M i n i s t er of T r a d e. T r a v e l e rs m ay f ree ly take out Indon e s i an c omm em o r a t i ve g o ld and s i l v er co ins issued in A u g u st 1970 up to Rp 6 5 , 0 00 a p e r son, a nd g o ld a nd s i l v er co ins issued as part of the " c o n s e r v a t i on c o i n a g e" in O c t o b er 1974 up to Rp 130 ,000 a p e r s o n; amoun ts in excess r equ i re the p r i or a p p r o v al of B a nk I n d o n e s i a. Impo r ts of g o ld are free of l icense but r e q u i re p r i or no t i f i c a t ion of the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry a nd are subject to an ex t ra levy of Rp 25 per U S $ 1. Changes during 1976 January 6. U se of m e r ch ant letters of c r e d it for the im p o r t a t i on of c a r b on paper a nd s t en c il sheets was p r o h i b i t e d. Im p o r ts are p e rm i t t ed o n ly u n d er b a n k e r s' letters of c r ed i t. January 20. T he im p o rt du ty on d iesel eng ines for s t a t ion a ry engines in c om p l e t e ly k n o c k e d - d own c o n d i­ t i on was r edu c ed by 50 per cent r e t ro a c t ive to N o v e m­ ber 1, 1975. January 20. T he im p o rt du ty on v i n yl c h l o r i de m o n om er was r edu c ed to 5 per cent r e t ro a c t ive to J a n u a ry 1. January 30. T he im p o rt d u ty a nd sales tax on l a p p i ng c l o th was e l im i n a t ed r e t ro a c t ive to June 1975. February 9. A su rcha rge of 3 00 per cent was i n t r o­ du c ed on c e r t a in types of i r on a nd steel r a i s i ng the im p o rt du ty on these to 40 per cen t. February 9. T he use of m e r c h a nt letters of c r e d it for the im p o r t a t i on of c e r am i cw a r e, con c r e te i r o n, a nd g lucose was p r o h i b i t e d. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA February 18. The use of m e r ch ant letters of c red it for the impo r ta t ion of bicycle cha ins was p roh ib i ted. April 1. One hund r ed and sixteen i tem s, i n c l u d i ng tea, some types of tobacco, and coconut o i l, were exempted f rom the 10 per cent export tax. The export tax was reduced f r om 10 per cent to 5 per cent on 40 i tems i n c l u d i ng coffee, rubber, pa lm o i l, pa lm ke rne ls, and pepper. In add i t ion, the 0.5 per cent s t amp charge on t ransac t ions in respect of export t rade, the export cess, the r eh ab i l i t a t ion f u nd levy, and v a r i o us reg ional levies were abolished. The in te rest ra te on export credits was reduced by 3 per cent to 12 per cen t. The banks' comm iss ion was reduced f rom 1/2 of 1 per cent to V* of 1 per cent of the v a l ue of the b i ll of exchange (up to US$2,500) and b a n ks were in s t ru c t ed not to l im it export credits. Other cost-related measures in c lud ed reduc t ion of sea t r an spo rt rates ( 10 per c e n t ), storage charges (15 per c e n t ), and inw a rd and ou tw a rd c lea rance charges (5 per c e n t ). In the i n s t i t u t i o n al f ie ld, measures were announ c ed to make export cred it guarantees available for small exporters up to Rp 25 m i l l i on to accelerate the d ev e lopm ent of expo rt proces- s ing zones, to increase f u n ds for state en te rp r ises to increase exports, and to decen t ra l ize the export pe rm it i s s u i ng au tho r i ty. April 27. Indone s ia and the Un i t ed K i n g d om s igned an ag reement for the p romo t ion and pro tec t ion of inv e s tm en ts in each other's te r r i to r ie s. The ag reement provided for compensation in the event of expropria- t ion. Such compensa t ion wou ld be made w i thout u n d ue de lay, wou ld be e f f e c t iv e ly rea l izab le, and wou ld be f r e e ly t ran s fe rab le. April 28. The impo rt d u ty on g u n ny bags or sacks was reduced by 25 per cent. May I. The impo rt du ty and sales tax on ke rosene, i n c l u d i ng jet f u e l, avgas fuel o i l, and gas o i l, was abo l ished re troac t ive to J a n u a ry 3 1, 1973. May 29. It was announced that pa r t ial exemp t ion f rom impo rt d u ty was granted up to Ap r il 1, 1977 on the impo rt of pesticides for specified uses. May 31. Parts and componen ts for domes t ic assembly were p a r t i a l ly exemp ted f rom impo rt d u t y, sub ject to the r e comm end a t ion of the M in i s t er of Indu s t ry. June 1. Specified imports of scientific books were exemp ted f r om impo rt du ty and sales tax. June 3. The dead l ine for the t r a n s f er of total or m a jo r i ty owne rsh ip of fo re ign t r ad ing compan ies to Indone s ians was set to J a n u a ry 1, 1978. June 5. A surcharge of one th i rd was in t roduced on the impo rt du ty and sales tax on agar-agar. June 21. The use of m e r ch ant le t ters of credit for the im p o r t a t i on of ce r ta in a l u m i n um ex t ru s ion, p las t ic bags, coke, con fec t ione ry i tems, and gelatin was prohibited. July 1. It was a n n o u n c ed t h at the p rodu c t ion - sh a r ing f o rm u l as app l ied to fo re ign o il compan ies wou ld be revised to 85 per cent for Indones ia and 15 per cent for the fo re ign producers, re t roac t ive to J a n u a ry 1, 1976. July 13. A 200 per cent su rcha rge was in t rodu c ed on the impo rt d u ty and sales tax on bars and rods of iron and steel w i th a 75 per cent import du ty exemption for im p o r ts used as basic m a t e r i a ls in domes t ic indu s t ry. July 21. Impo rt taxes, sales taxe s, and o ther levies on au tomob i les and o ther vehicles were ad ju s ted so as to lower prices of comme rc ial vehicles by about 25 per cent and to inc rease the pr ice of p r i v a te au tomob i les by 20 per cen t. July 27. The impo rt d u ty and sales tax on pa r ts of sedan au tomob i les and s ta t ion wagons were increased to 100 per cent and 20 per cen t, respec t ive ly. August 2. Check w r i t i ng p r iv i leges on fo r e ign cur- rency accoun ts were e l im in a t ed. F u t u re w i thd rawa ls w o u ld r equ i re a le t ter to the b a n k. August 3. Impo r ts of a i r c r a ft eng ines and eng ine spa re pa r ts were exemp ted f rom im p o rt d u ty and sales t a x. August 5. Cer ta in vaccines were exempted im p o rt d u ty and sales tax. August 23. New r egu l a t ions for new nonene rgy m i n i ng v e n t u r es were es tab l ished by P r e s i d e n t i al decree. The new regu la t ions a l lowed new m i n i ng compan ies, by a r r a n g em e nt w i th the cen t ral bank and the M i n i ng D e p a r tm e n t, to deposit all fo re ign ea rn ings in a special a c count w i th a comme rc ial bank abroad in the n ame of Bank Indones ia as agent for the companies. The com- p an i es were allowed to use such fo re ign exchange to meet necessary exp end i tu r e s. The tax on exports was made va r iab le, d e c l i n i ng w i th the degree of local processing of the p roduc t, and tax exemp t ions could be granted for impor ts of cap i tal equ ipmen t. August 30. The rates of impo rt du ty and sales tax were lowered on basic ma te r ia ls and a u x i l i a ry ma te r ia ls for the p r in t ing ink indus t ry, retroactive to Janua ry 1, 1975. November 3. The impo rt du ty and sales tax on impo r ts of gold in the fo rm of lump s, ingots, cast bars, and powder were both reduced to 2!/2 per cent. f rom 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0108055 g ram of fine gold per I r a n i an R i a l, c o r r e s p o n d i ng to R ls 82 .2425 = SDR 1. The exchange ra te is m a i n t a i n ed on the bas is of th is par v a lue equ iv a l en t. I ran has ava i led i tse lf of w id er m a r g i n s, and the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n cy is the U.S. dol- lar. On December 31, 1976 the o f f i c i al r a t es of B a nk M a rk a zi I ran ( the Cen t ral B a n k) for the U.S. do l la r, the only cu r r en cy that is off ic ia l ly quo t ed, we re Rls "70.50 buy ing, and R ls 70.75 s e l l ing, per US $ 1. The C e n t r al Bank also pub l ishes d a i ly ex ch ange r a t es for 14 o ther currenc ies 1 for purposes of the c a l c u l a t i on of impo rt r e g i s t r a t i on fees and im p o rt d u t i e s; these r a t es a re based on the o f f i c i al ra tes for the U.S. do l l ar and the London ma rket rates for the cu r renc ies concerned. There is a dual exchange m a r k e t, c o n s i s t i ng of a comm e r c i al m a r k et ( or o f f i c i al r a te m a r k e t) w i th f i x ed U.S. do l lar ra tes and a n o n c omm e r c i al m a rk et w i th f l u c t u a t i ng ra tes. Bo th m a r k e ts op e r a te w i t h in t he b a n k- ing sys tem. The C e n t r al B a nk s t a n ds r e ady to pu rcha se f rom the commerc ial bank s, at o f f i c i al rates, any fo re ign exchange proceeds f r om expo r ts of goods and services. Impo rt p a ym e n ts m u st in p r i n c i p le be se t t led in the o f f ic ial ra te m a r k e t. Also se t t led at o f f i c i al ra tes a re basic a l lo c a t ions for ce r ta in au tho r i z ed cu r r ent paymen ts ( t r av e l, s tudy, a nd m e d i c al t r e a tm e nt a b r o a d) a n d, on the supp ly s ide, any expo rt proceeds and o ther c u r r e nt receipts converted by pub l ic sector agencies ( i n c l u d i ng t he N a t i o n al I r a n i an O il C o m p a n y ). Proceeds f r om expor ts o ther t h an o i l, o il p roduc t s, and n a t u r al gas. as well as the proceeds f rom expor ts of services, may be sold e i th er in the o f f i c i al or the n o n c omm e r c i al m a r k e t. A ll o ther p a ym e n ts and rece ip ts a re se t t led at the n o n- commerc ial m a rk et rate. However, t ran sac t ions over c lear ing accoun ts d e n om i n a t ed in U.S. do l la rs a re in a ll cases se t t led at the o f f i c i al b u y i ng and s e l l i ng ra tes. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol a u t h o r i ty is vested in the C en t r al Bank. In p r in c ip l e, a ll f o r e i gn exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns must take place through the Cen t ral B ank or au tho r i z ed banks. Impor ts and expor ts of goods are governed by regu la t ions issued a n n u a l ly by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and approved by the Counc il of M in i s t e r s. Foreign trade re la t ions w i th A l b a n ia and the Repub l ic of Ch ina are und er the con trol of the Foreign T r an s a c t ions Com- pany w i t h in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency T r an s a c t ions w i th s ix of the n i ne coun t r ies w i th which I r an has b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag reemen ts 2 mu st be con- duc ted th rough ag reement accoun ts denom ina ted in U.S. do l lars, wh i le those w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, the G e rm an Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, and No r th Korea mu st be conduc ted th rough accoun ts d enom in a t ed in I r a n i an r ia l s. Se t t lemen ts w i th Mexico may op t ion a l ly be made XhvowgVv a. dearmg account denominated in U.S. do l la r s. Se t t lemen ts w i th the o ther member coun- t r ies of the As ian C lea r ing Un ion (Bang ladesh, Ind i a, N ep a l, P a k i s t a n, and S ri L a n k a) in respect of c u r r e nt t r a n s a c t i o ns (o th er t h an those r e l a t i ng to p e t ro l eum, n a t u r al gas, and the ir produc ts) may be effec ted in the A s i an m o n e t a ry u n it or in the cu r r en cy of one of the c o u n t r i es that a re p a r t i es to the i n d i v i d u al con t ract con- c e rn ed. Paymen ts to and f r om P ak i s t an and Turkey r e l a t i ng to v is ib le t rade ( ex c lud ing border t rade, petro- l eum and pe t ro leum p roduc ts, and de fen se m a t e r i a l s) a re se t t led over c l e a r ing a c c o u n ts m a i n t a i n ed by the respective cen t ral b anks in U.S. dollars. Paymen ts to Rhode s ia a re p roh ib i ted. Se t t lemen ts w i th o ther coun- t r i es n o rm a l ly a re se t t led in the quo ted cu r renc ies (see foo tno te 1 ). Nonresident Accounts Fore ign n a t i o n a ls a re p e rm i t t ed to m a i n t a in accoun ts free ly, in r ia ls as well as in fo re ign currenc ies, w i th a u t h o r i z ed b ank s; r i al accoun ts may be used bo th for p aym en ts in I r an and for conve r s ion i n to f o r e i gn cu r- rencies through the noncomme rc ial ma rke t. Foreign n a t i o n a ls as we ll as I r a n i an phy s ical or j u r i d i c al persons m ay m a i n t a in s ight or t ime depos i ts in fo r e ign cu r r en- cies in I ran; these accounts may be used for t r an s f e rs ab road or for sales to au tho r i z ed bank s. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts i n to I r an a re sub ject to con t rol by the G o v e r nm e n t. The im p o rt po l icy is r e - ex am in ed a n n u a l l y, and a new Impo rt List, e f fec t ive for the next I r a n i an yea r, is pub l ished by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. The Impo rt List d i s t i n g u i s h es be tween "au tho r ized ," "unau tho r ized ," and "prohibited" goods. "Au tho r ized" impo r t s, con s i s t ing of goods whose im p o r t a t i on is considered essential and i n c l u d i ng i t ems wh ich e i ther a re not produced in I ran or a re produced in I ran but not in q u a n t i t i es s u f f i c i e nt to meet domestic requ iremen ts, are d iv ided in to two m a in ca tego r ies: ( 1) impo r ts for wh ich orders may be Aus t ra l ian do l lars, A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C a n a d i an dollars, Danish k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese yen, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss f r a n c s. - Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman D emo c r a t ic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, N o r th Korea, P o l a n d, R om a n i a, a nd U.S.S.R. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN placed w i thout pr ior approval by gove rnment agencies,"' and (2) impo r ts th at are sub ject to prior app roval by gove rnment agencies (g en e r a l ly the M i n i s t ry of Com- merce) before the impo rt order is placed. "Unau tho- rized" impo r ts are goods whose im p o r t a t i on is not con- sidered essen t ia l, i n c l u d i ng goods whose local p rodu c t ion is su f f i c i ent to meet domes t ic d em a n d. Commod i t ies may be sh i f ted f rom the "au thor ized" l i st to the "unau- thorized" l is t, and vice versa, when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no au tho r i z a t ions are g iven; these compr ise only a few items such as op ium and f i rea rm s. Impo r ts w i t h o ut p a ym e nt th rough the o f f ic ial exchange ma rket of "au thor ized" goods r equ i re p r ior app roval by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and the C en t r al B a n k. How- ever, impo r ts of "au thor ized" goods w i t h o ut p aym ent a re pe rm i t ted w i t h o ut any l im i t a t i o n, prov ided th at r eg i s t r a t ion is made before the order is p laced. Such impo r ts up to US$5,000 a re p e rm i t t ed w i t h o ut p r ior reg i s t ra t ion but are sub ject to a r eg i s t r a t ion fee; pay- men ts may be made e i th er th rough the comm e r c i al or the n o n c omm e r c i al exchange m a r k e t. In a d d i t i o n, per- m i s s ion is g iven for the f o l l ow i n g: im p o r ts de s t ined for o f f ic ial c h a r i t a b le i n s t i t u t i o ns or gov e rnm ent o rg an i z a- t ion s; m a c h i n e r y; spare pa r ts and raw or i n t e rm e d i a te m a t e r i a ls for p roduc t ive en t i t ie s, up to US$1,000 a s h i pm e n t; and a ll o ther impo r ts of "au tho r ized" goods up to US$300 a s h i pm e n t. Impo r ts on t h is basis are exempt f r om the impo rt r e g i s t r a t i on depos i t. The im p o rt of g i f t s, wh e th er "au tho r ized" or "unau tho r ized" com- mod i t ie s, is res tr ic ted to R ls 20,000 a person a yea r. Specified commod i t ie s, such as suga r, whea t, tobacco, and c iga re t te paper are impo r ted under state monopo ly. P aym en ts may be made e i th er a g a i n st b i l ls for collec- t i on or d o c um e n t a ry le t te rs of c r ed i t. P aym en ts ag a in st b i l ls for co l lec t ion may be made w i t h o ut p r ior a u t h o r i z a- t i on for goods (m a i n ly c a p i t al goods and raw m a t e r i a l s) l is ted in the Schedule a t tached to C i r c u l ar No. 116 of August 3, 1965 ( I r a n i an da te 1 2 / 5 / 2 5 2 4 ). P a ym e n ts for impo r ts of other goods may also be made aga inst b i l ls for co l lec t ion w i t h o ut p r ior pe rm i s s ion f r om the Cen t ral B a n k, p rov ided t h at the b i l ls a re s e t t l ed w i t h in n i ne mon ths. A ll orders for impo r ts m u st be reg is tered w i th the C en t r al Bank th rough an au tho r i z ed b a n k; r eg i s t r a t ion is effec ted a g a i n st a pro fortna invo ice. Impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia a re p roh ib i t ed and spec ial r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to c e r t a in commod i t i es when o r i g i n a t- ing in Hong Kong. At the t ime of reg i s t ra t ion of impo r t s, an impo rt r eg i s t r a t ion fee of 1 per cent of the am o u nt of an im p o rt order, ca lcu la ted on the bas is of the o f f i c i al se l l ing ra te, is collected by au tho r ized b a n k s. Impo r ts brought in u n d er the law for the A t t r a c t i on and Protec- t ion of Foreign Inve s tment in I r an a re exempt f r om the 3 Expo r ts and im p o r ts of goods t h at are not in c lud ed in the b i l a t e r al e x p o r t / im p o rt list for c o u n t r i es w i th wh i ch I r an h as b i l a t e r al t r a de and p aym en ts ag reemen ts r equ i re special app rov al by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. 238 fee. For some goods, impo r te rs must lodge w i th the Cen t ral Bank, through an au thor ized b a n k, a deposit of 15 per cent of the invo iced v a lu e; th is is done at the time of registration. Most food items are exempt f rom the reg i s t ra t ion deposit. The deposit is r e fund ab le upon p re sen ta t ion of the cus toms c lea rance ce r t i f ica te a f ter the respective goods have been cleared th rough customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Central Bank may p e rm i t, when necessary, the s h i f t i ng of impo r ts f rom the category in wh ich an advance impo rt deposit is requ i red to the exempt category and vice versa. Au tho r ized banks make paymen ts for permitted impo r ts aga inst the p resen ta t ion of sh ipp ing documen ts. App roval of the sh ipp ing documen ts by the au thor ized b anks rep resen ts approval of the fo re ign exchange t r an s f e r. Most impo r ts are sub ject to comme rc ial bene f it taxes, wh ich are e i ther spec if ic or ad v a lo r em and are in add i- t ion to any app l icab le cus toms du ty. The ad va lo rem comme rc ial bene f it tax ranges f r om 1 per cent to 200 per cen t. Monopo ly taxes a re in c lud ed in the comme rc ial b en e f it taxes. The a u t h o r i t i es spec i fy in the Impo rt List the comm e r c i al bene f it taxes for each yea r. These taxes are pa id to the cus toms be fo re cus toms c lea rance. The c lea rance th rough cu s toms is a u t h o r i z ed upon the pres- e n t a t i on of s h i p p i ng do cum en ts endorsed by the au tho- r ized b ank s, s p e c i f y i ng t h at p a ym e nt has been made or w i ll be made, and, when r equ i r ed, t h at the spec ial impo rt a u t h o r i z a t i on has been received f r om gov e rnm ent agen- cies p r ior to l a d i ng of goods in the c o u n t ry of o r i g i n. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for all current inv is ib les may be made free ly th rough the non comm e r c i al m a r k e t. In a d d i t i o n, there a re c e r t a in a l l o c a t i o ns at the o f f i c i al ra te for t r av e l, s tudy, and med ical t r e a tm e nt ab road. P aym en ts for inv i s ib les re la ted to impo r ts a re made on the same bas is as p a ym e n ts for the f .o .b. v a lue of those im p o r t s. O f f i c i al exchange is g r an t ed to impo r te rs for i n s u r a n ce of im p o r ts aga in st b i l ls for co l lec t ion; for impo r ts covered by d o c um e n t a ry le t te rs of c red i t, insu r- ance mu st be t a k en out in I r an. O f f i c i al exchange is not g r an t ed to expo r te rs for in su r an ce of I r a n i an expor ts sold f .o .b. O f f i c i al exchange also is not g r an t ed for the p a ym e nt of other i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s, a l though re in- su rance p r em i um p a ym e n ts a re p e rm i t t ed. Au tho r ized b a n ks a re p e rm i t t ed to r em it in te re st on impo r t e r s' sup- pliers' c red it not exceed ing 8 .5 per c e n t; h igher interest ra tes r equ i re spec ial p e rm i s s ion f r om the Cen t ral Bank. Fo re ign n a t i o n a ls w o r k i ng in I r an as t e chn i c al assis- t a n t s, whose emp loym ent has been recogn ized as neces- sa ry by the G o v e r nm e n t, may r em it at the o f f i c i al ra te about 50 per cent of the ir net s a l a r i e s; any add i t ion al am o u n ts may be r em i t t ed th rough the non comm e r c i al m a rk e t. The basic t ravel a l lowance for I r an i an and fo re ign n a t i o n a l s — t he equ iva lent of Rls 50,000 a person a t r i p —m ay be made av a i l ab le by au tho r ized b anks at the o f f i c i al ra te upon p r e s e n t a t i on of a va l id passport and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exit permit; each accompany ing member of the passport holder's f am i ly is en t i t led to the same a l lowance, and there is no l im it on the n um b er of t imes a person may avail himself of this fac i l i ty. Add i t ional f u n ds in respect of personal or business travel may be purchased f ree ly in the noncomme rc ial m a rk e t. Banks may se l l, at the o f f ic ial rate, up to the e q u i v a l e nt of Rls 200,000 a per- son to I r a n i an n a t ion a ls t r a v e l i ng or r e s i d i ng abroad, for medical t r e a tm en t; add i t ional fo re ign exchange at the off ic ial rate can be ob ta ined aga inst m ed i c al b i l ls certi- fied by an Iran ian consulate abroad, and any fu r ther amoun ts may be purchased in the noncomme rc ial mar- ke t. I ran ian physical and j u r i d i c al persons may f ree ly make rem i t tances abroad f rom domes t ic c u r r e nt accounts in which they re ta in fo re ign exchange received f r om sources abroad, i n c l u d i ng export proceeds; balances in such accounts are f ree ly t r an s f e r ab l e. I r an i an n a t i o n a ls l e av ing the c o u n t ry a re r equ i r ed to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each s i n g l e - j o u r n ey exit p e rm i t. The tax is imposed also for p i l g r im a ge travel. Lower rates app ly to f am i ly membe rs t r av e l ing on the same passport (w i fe and c h i l d r en f r om 7 to 18 years of age ), viz., Rls 2,500 a person. I ran ians res ident abroad and s t u d e n ts s t u d y i ng abroad but v i s i t- ing home t em p o r a r i ly a re exempt f r om p aym ent of the tax. Travelers l e a v i ng I ran may t ake w i th them R ls 20,000 in I r an i an bankno tes. Travelers of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i ty may not expo rt f o r e i gn cu r r en cy in excess of the am o u nt they impor ted less the amoun ts they have sold to autho- rized bank s, as recorded in t h e ir passpo r ts; they may, however, conve rt up to R ls 50,000 i n to o ther cu r renc ies at the o f f i c i al ra te, upon p r e s e n t a t i on of t h e ir v isaed passpor t, a nd m ay f r e e ly conve rt a ny a d d i t i o n al am o u nt in the n o n c omm e r c i al m a rk e t. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts to Rhode s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. Expo r ts of some commod i t ies requ i re licenses. The comme rc ial bene f it tax and cu s toms d u ty cha rged at the t ime of im p o rt of r aw m a t e r i a ls c o n t a i n ed in m a n u f a c t u r ed goods for export may be r e t u r n ed to the expo r ter a f t er the expo rt h as t a k en p lace. C e r t a in m i n or expo r ts a re g ran ted incen t ive p a ym e n ts by the Cen ter for the P r om o t i on of Expo r t s. The C en t r al B ank o f f e rs p r e f e r e n t i al d i scount fac i l i t ies for export b i l ls. The f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy proceeds of c omm o d i t i es o ther th an pe t ro leum, pe tro leum produc ts, and n a t u r al gas may be r e t a i n ed ab road; if th ey a re r e p a t r i a t e d, they may be kept as fo r e ign cu r r en cy depos i ts w i th dome s t ic banks or sold to the b a n k i ng sys tem e i t h er in the o f f i c i al exchange m a r k et or in the n o n c omm e r c i al m a r k e t. Au tho r ized banks n o rm a l ly accept expo rt proceeds on ly in U.S. do l l a rs and o ther quo ted c u r r e n c i es (see foo t- note 1 ), but they are pe rm i t ted to accept other cu r ren- cies at th e ir d iscre t ion. IRAN Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om inv is ib les may be re ta ined in a fore ign cu r rency account w i th an au tho r ized bank, where they r em a in at the free disposal of the account holder. Travelers may freely b r ing in Rls 20,000 in I ran ian b ankno t e s; h igher am o u n ts requ i re the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. The r ep a t r i a t ion of I r an i an b a n k- notes through the ma il also requ ires Cen tral Bank approva l. Capital I r a n i an na t iona ls may re ta in in domes t ic fore ign cur- rency accounts any cap i tal receipts a c c ru ing in f o r e i gn exchange; transfers abroad f rom such accounts may be made f ree ly, as may domes t ic t ran s fe rs to other I r a n i an n a t i o n a l s. Private ou twa rd t r an s f e rs of cap i tal may be made th rough the non comm e r c i al m a rk e t, i r respec t ive of the ir purpose. R e t r an s f er abroad at the o f f i c i al sell- ing rate is permitted w i th Central Bank approval, pro- v ided th at the in f low had been spec i f ica l ly au thor ized by the Cen t ral Bank and was registered w i th the Cen- t ral B a n k. Au tho r ized banks may f r e e ly accept in f lows of f o r e i gn exchange f rom abroad (bo th deposits and bo r row ing s) and may lend the fo re ign cu r rency to resi- den ts or sell it in the n o n c omm e r c i al ma rket for r ia l s; the r ial coun te rpa rt may be lent to residents, but such l e n d i ng is subject to the app l icab le credit c e i l ing s. At the end of 1976 the net shor t- term fo r e ign l i a b i l i t i es of the comme rc ial b anks were subject to a reserve r equ i r e- m e nt of 30 per cen t. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and P ro tec t ion of Fo re ign Inv e s tm ent in I ran ( 1 9 5 5) and r e g u l a t i o ns im p l em e n t i ng the law, fo re ign cap i tal invested in approved deve lopment or p roduc t ive ac t iv i t ies in i n d u s t r y, m i n i n g, ag r icu l tu re, or t r an spo rt may be repa- t r i a t e d, together w i th net prof i ts ( in accordance w i th A r t i c le 1 of the law and the p rov i s ions con ta ined in the im p l em e n t i ng regu la t ions ), in the fo rm of fore ign ex ch ange a n d / or goods. T rans fe rs of exchange must be made at the o f f ic ial ma rket s e l l ing rate p r ev a i l ing at the date of t r a n s f e r. However, the Cen tral Bank has the op t ion of b u y i ng the exchange or accep t ing it as a deposit to be converted in to r ia ls at a rate mu tua l ly agreed upon in a separa te ag reemen t, and th is ra te r em a i ns app l icab le to the f u n ds when they are repa- t r i a t ed. Cap i tal impo r ted under th is law in the fo rm of f o r e i gn exchange mu st be in cu r renc ies acceptable to the Cen t ral B a n k; the exchange is converted into r i a ls at the b u y i ng ra te p r e v a i l i ng on the date of app l i- cation for conversion. All conversions must take place in the o f f i c i al m a rk et ( c ap i t a l, p ro f i ts and d iv idend s, am o r t i z a t i o n, and l i q u i d a t i on proceeds). Since Octo- ber 12, 1975 fo re ign p a r t i c ip a t ion in domestic en terpr ises has become sub ject to ceilings. In inve s tment areas with special technological requ iremen ts, foreign participation is l im i t ed to 35 per cent. In sectors with lower tech- 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN nological requirements the ceiling is less than 35 per cent. However, in newly founded jo int ownership com- panies, the foreign partner may apply for a higher share in ownership for up to five years, unless he immed ia te ly limits his share to the legal m a x im um. Gold No Iran ian gold coins are legal tender.4 Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any fo rm in I ran, and there is a free market for both. Authorized banks may import and export gold and silver (bullion on ly, which for gold must be at least 995/1000 fine) with prior approval of the Central Bank, against settlement through the official rate market, and sell these metals to any person in I ran. The import and export of gold for mone tary purposes or for in terna t ional settlements is reserved for the Cen- tral Bank, while the import for indus tr ial and dental use is effected by professional organ iza t ions, at the off i- cial rate and subject to supervision by the Central Bank. The Central Bank accepts gold bu l l ion on deposit f rom domestic banks as well as nonbank residents and issues gold certificates against such deposits. Travelers may freely import and export gold bullion up to 1 kilo- gram a person a trip; the Central Bank is empowered to approve larger quantities. The export of I ran ian gold coins for num isma t ic purposes requires prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports of gold are free f rom customs duty and commercial benefit tax but are subject to the 1 per cent impo rt registration fee. Bank Melli Iran and other commercial banks give da i ly quotations for domestic sales. Changes during 1976 February 18. All restrictions on the import of silver bars were abolished. March 7. In response to an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, Iran devalued the rial f rom R l s69 .15 buy ing and Rls 69.40 selling, per US$1 to Rls 69.25 buy ing and Rls 69.50 selling, per US$1. There were fu r ther adjust- ments in fo l low ing months un t il by June 3 the rates were Rls 70.50 buy ing and Rls 70.75 selling, per US$1. March 21. Preferen t ial customs treatment for the import of used cars was abolished in an attempt to 4 A r t ic le 2 ( d) of the Mone ta ry and B a n k i ng Act prohibits the use of gold coins as legal tender. discourage such imports. Previously there had been a discount on customs fees for used imported cars rang- ing between 70 per cent and 20 per cen t. March 21. New trade regu la t ions for 1976/77 pro- vided for the complete removal of commercial benef it taxes on certain imported construction items, cuts of up to half the present tax on indus tr ial raw ma ter ia ls, and reduced taxes on a wide range of consumer goods. The regu la t ions aimed to ensu re ava i lab i l i ty of consumer goods inc lud ing food, while also o f fe r ing a measure of protection to domestic indu s t ry and ag r icu l tu re. Items on which commercial benefit taxes were completely removed inc luded p re fab r ica ted hous ing un i ts, construc- tion materials, f loo r ing, some medicines and surgical equ ipmen t, and a number of ag r icu l tu ral i tems, inc lud ing sp ray ing equ ipmen t, pou l try incubators, pasture seedlings, and flower seeds. Consumer items on which commercial benefit taxes were reduced included such items as tele- v is ion receivers (cut f rom 60 per cent to 50 per c e n t ), radios (70 per cent to 50 per c e n t ), re f r ige ra to rs (25 per cent to 15 per c e n t ), wa ter heaters (35 per cent to 25 per cen t), and hea ters (50 per cent to 40 per cent). The t rade regu la t ions also provided for an increase in the number of items for which the M in i s t ry of Com- merce's au tho r iza t ion was requ ired pr ior to impo r t. This covered the impo rt of goods previously un res t r ic ted, in c lud ing pneuma t ic tools, combustion eng ine f i l ters, silk thread, and cer ta in textiles. In cases where the impo rt of a pa r t icu lar commod i ty would be condi- t ional on the pr ior approval of one of the government o rgan iza t ions, the M in is try of Commerce would consult the organ iza t ion concerned before issu ing the import permit. May 12. Import duties on prefabr ica ted houses and components were reduced to 5 per cent. May 21. In a move to ease pressure on the demand for new cars, the Government reduced the commercial benefit taxes applied to four-door sedans w i th an engine capacity of 1,440 cubic centimeters to 1,800 cubic centimeters and value rang ing f r om Rls 150,000 to Rls 350,000. July 24. The paymen ts agreement w i th Mexico was automatically renewed under the provisions contained in the agreement which provide for automatic renewal every year unless revoked by either party to the agreement. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a l ue is 2.48828 g rams of fine gold per I r aqi D i n a r. The p a r i ty for the U.S. d o l l a r, wh ich is the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r r en cy, is ID 1 = US$3.3778, and Iraq a v a i ls i tse lf of w id er m a rg in s. T ran sac t ions in the o f f i c i al m a r k et a re ca r r ied out in any of the l is ted cu r- rencies 1 or in I r a qi d i n a rs t h r o u gh n o n r e s i d e nt accoun ts in I r aq. The C e n t r al B a nk of I r aq quo tes o f f i c i al ra tes for the l is ted cu r r en c i e s, o ther t h an the U.S. d o l l a r, f or i ts t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th a u t h o r i z ed d e a l e rs o n l y. Administration of Control The Board of A dm i n i s t r a t i on of the C en t r al B ank of I raq is e n t r u s t ed w i th a ll powers a nd r e s p o n s i b i l i t i es in connec t ion w i th exchange con t ro l; t h is a u t h o r i ty is exe- cu ted t h r o u gh the Fo re ign Ex ch ange C omm i t t ee (headed by the Gove rnor of the C e n t r al B a n k, h is Dep- u t y, or a m em b er spec i f ied in a d v a n ce by the Board of A d m i n i s t r a t i o n ), wh i ch h as de lega ted c e r t a in app roval a u t h o r i ty to the D e p a r tm e nt of Fo r e ign E x c h a n ge of the Cen t ral Bank and to the l icensed dea le r s. Foreign exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns m u st t a ke p l a ce t h r o u gh a l icen sed dealer un le ss o therw ise au tho r ized by the Board of A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. A ll b ranches of the R a f i d a in B a n k, the sole comm e r c i al b a n k, are l icensed dea lers. Impo rt po l icy is d e t e rm i n ed by the Coun c il for the R e g u l a t i on of Trade. A fo re ign exchange budge t, i n c l u d i ng an impo rt pro- g ram, is e s t ab l i sh ed a n n u a l l y, and f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge a l l o- ca t ions u n d er the impo rt p rog ram are superv ised by the Impo rt P rog ram C omm i t t e e. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th fore ign coun t r i es n o rm a l ly must be made in any of the l is ted c u r r e n c i e s. T r a n s a c t i o ns per- m i t ted in the listed currenc ies may a l t e r n a t i v e ly be settled in I r aqi d i n a rs th rough n o n r e s i d e nt accoun t s. Paymen ts to and receipts f rom Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The open ing of a non r e s id ent account requ i res the approval of the exchange con t rol au tho r i t ie s. Non re s i- dent accounts are d iv ided in to o r d i n a ry nonres ident accounts, wh i ch arise f rom t r an s a c t ions in respect of c u r r e nt paymen t s, and special non re s ident accoun ts, which arise f rom t ran sac t ions in respect of cap i tal t ran s- fers. F u r t h e rm o r e, I r aqi n a t i o n a ls who have been work- 1 A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e lg i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, D a n i sh k r o n e r, d e u t s c he m a r k, F r e n ch f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J ap an e se y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, Sw ed i sh k r o n o r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U .S. do l la r s. ing ab road for at least a year or who become re s iden ts a f t er h a v i ng been non res iden ts may open accounts in fo r e ign c u r r e n c i es w i th b a n ks in I raq and c red it these w i th up to 50 per cent of the ir fore ign savings. Balances in such a c coun ts may be used for a v a r i e ty of purposes, i n c l u d i ng impo r ts for the holder's personal use, impo r ts of c e r t a in c a p i t al goods, or m e e t i ng e x p e n d i t u r es abroad for t r a v e l, med ical t r e a tm e n t, and s tudy purposes; pay- m e n ts f r om these accoun ts up to the e q u i v a l e nt of ID 500 a year do not r equ i re Cen t ral B ank app rova l. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of m a ny commod i t i e s, i n c l u d i ng j u t e, s u g a r, tea, ed ib le o i l, ce r ta in med ical supp l ies, m a c h i ne tools, and a u t om o b i l e s, a re a g o v e r nm e nt m o n o p o l y. A ll p r i- va te impo r ts except those of the p r iv a te sector oil com- p a n i es r e q u i re l icenses; in p r i n c i p le these a re issued in accordance w i th an a n n u al impo rt p rog ram, but some im p o r ts t a ke p lace ou ts ide the p rog r am. Im p o r ts of a ll goods f r om Israe l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca and a ll impo r ts f r om Hong Kong other t h an ce r ta in essen t ial goods are p roh ib i ted. Impo r ts of some commod i t ies on a Protection List are in p r inc ip le p roh ib i ted f rom a ll sources. A tax of up to 15 per cent is levied on the am o u nt of any s u p p l em e n t a ry im p o rt l icenses above a p r i v a te impo r te r 's a n n u al quo ta. To f inance the Export Subs idy F u n d, a tax of l/2 of 1 per cent is lev ied on im p o r ts of c ap i t al goods and a tax of 3/4 of 1 per cent on impo r ts of co n s um er goods. A ll im p o r ts sub ject to im p o rt d u ty are also subject to a cus toms surcharge of 15 per cent of the app l icab le cu s toms d u t y. Licensed dealers make exchange av a i l ab le upon pre- s e n t a t i on of the exchange con t rol copy of the im p o rt license, except in some ins tances where reference has to be made to the C en t r al B a n k. Payments for Invisibles W i th the exception of ce r ta in p a ym e n ts f r om fo re ign cu r r en cy accoun ts (see section on Non r e s id ent Accounts, above ), a ll paymen ts for inv i s ib les r equ i re perm iss ion. Exchange is u s u a l ly g ran ted for edu c a t ion al and med ical expenses abroad, f r e ight on exports c a r r i ed on a c. & f. basis, insu rance p r em i um s, royalties, etc. Exchange is not g ran ted to m e r c h a n ts for the i n s u r a n ce abroad of the ir impor ts or exports. Licensed dealers are pe rm i t ted to t r a n s f er up to 75 per cent of a n n u al income acc rued to A rab and fore ign n a t ion a ls res ident in I raq; for wo rke rs and t e c h n i c i a ns th is l im it is 50 per cen t. There is a basic exchange allowance for tou r i st and bu s ine ss t ravel of ID 250 a t r ip for each person 12 years of age or over (ID 125 for ch i ld ren und er 1 2 ), for trips of a mon th or less to A rab coun t r i e s, soc ia l ist 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ countries, Iran, and Turkey; for trips of over a month the a l lowance is increased to ID 300 (ID 150 for chil- d ren under 1 2 ), and for subsequent t r ips in the same ca lendar year these a l lowances are reduced to 50 per cent of the basic a l lowance. For t ravel to o ther coun- tr ies, the basic a l lowance is ID 400 a t r ip for each person 12 years of age or over for t r ips not exceeding one mon th, ID 500 for longer t r ips, and 50 per cent of the basic a l loca t ion for subsequent trips in the same ca lendar year. Travelers may take out ID 5 in I raqi currency notes, in add i t ion to 50 per cent of the domestic currency equ iva lent of the foreign exchange allocated, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the ba lance of that allowance in travelers checks. Res i- den ts on a p i lg r image to Saudi A rab ia are perm i t ted to take out the equ iv a l ent of ID 200 in listed cu r renc ies or in Saudi A r a b i an r iy a ls (ID 100 for persons over 5 and u n d er 1 8 ). On leav ing the coun t ry, I r aqi n a t i o n a ls mu st pay an ex it tax of ID 20, except when t r a v e l i ng to G u lf coun- t r ies or on an o f f i c i al m iss ion the e n t i re expense of wh i ch is bo rne by the Gov e rnm en t. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, I s rae l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca and expor ts of c e r t a in goods to all other coun t r ies are p roh ib i ted. The Counc il for the R egu l a- t ion of Trade has a u t h o r i ty to p roh ib it the expo rt of any commod i ty when s u p p ly f a l ls short of dome s t ic d em a n d. The expo rt of c e r t a in i t ems is reserved for the M a r k e t i ng and Services Co rpo r a t ion. A ll o ther expo r ts are l icensed f ree ly. Expor ters mu st g e n e r a l ly u n d e r t a ke to r ep a t r i a te t h e ir fo re ign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to su r render them w i t h in s ix mon ths a f t er sh ipm en t. Proceeds f rom exports of dates t ak en by s a i l i ng boats to coun tr ies of the Gu lf area (exc lud ing I r a n ), Ind ia, and Pak i s tan a re exempt f r om these r e q u i r em e n ts when the am o u nt does not exceed ID 600 in va lue or 25 tons in weight. Expor ts of c e r t a in goods are subs id ized th rough an Expo rt Subs idy Fund. The ex tent of f i n a n- c ial support may not exceed 25 per cent of the va lue of the goods, and commod i t ies whose impo rt con tent exceeds 40 per cent are ineligible. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 f r om inv is ib les must be su r rende red w i t h in th ree mon ths to a licensed dealer. Travelers may b r ing in fore ign exchange, inc lud ing currency notes (other t h an Israel cu r rency ), in un l im i t ed amoun t s, provided that the f u n ds are declared on an exchange control fo rm; amoun ts not in tended to be taken out of the c o u n t ry are exempt f rom dec lara t ion. Travelers may b r ing in ID 25 in I raqi notes. 242 Capital Non res iden ts may import cap i tal f ree ly, except f rom Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be con- verted in to local currency at the official rate, and repatri- ation to the coun try of o r ig in is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies s tar t ing operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total cap i ta l. The transfer of profits net of income tax f rom fore ign inve s tmen ts is l im i ted to 10 per cent per a n n um of the pa id -up cap i tal for t rad ing com- pan ies, to 20 per cent of the pa id -up cap i tal for indus- t r i al compan ies, and to 50 per cent of to tal prof it for service compan ies. These percentages are app l icab le for each year separa te ly. They also app ly to prof i ts on cap i tal r e su l t ing f r om the m and a to ry re inve s tment of prof i ts in excess of the t r a n s f e r a b le percentage. A rab c ap i t al inve s ted in I raq is exempt f rom these percen tage l im i t a t i o ns and e n t i t l ed to p r e f e r en t i al t r e a tm ent in sev- eral other respects; interest paymen ts are not subject to any ce i l ings. All t rans fe rs of capital abroad by resi- den ts, whe ther Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control app rova l; such t rans fe rs are severely restricted. Special f a c i l i t i es allow Arab inves tors to b r ing in con- ve r t ib le currency freely through a licensed dealer for specified inv e s tm ent purposes; such cap i tal and any net p ro f i ts may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad in conver t ib le cur- r en cy. S im i l ar f a c i l i t i es pe rm it I raqi na t iona ls to b r ing in conve r t ib le cu r r en cy th rough a licensed dea ler and deposit the f u n ds in fo re ign cu r r en cy accoun ts, ba lances in w h i ch a re f r e e ly t r a n s f e r a b le ab road. U n d er the I n d u s t r i al P romo t ion Law (No. 22 of 1 9 7 3 ), c e r t a in incen t ives and gu a r an t e es may be g ran ted to app roved inve s tmen ts of domes t ic or fo re ign cap i tal in I raq. U n d er the I r a q i z a t i on Law of J u ne 1961, a ll b ranches of fo r e ign f i rms and a ll f o r e i g n - ow n ed f i rms except b a n k s2 must have a m a j o r i ty of equ i ty capital held by Iraqi na t iona ls; th is law does not cover export agencies and ope ra t ions requ i r ing special sk i l ls. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in I raq in any fo rm other t h an gold bars. Imports and expo r ts of gold in any fo rm requ i re the app roval of the C en t r al B ank. Since m id -1961, the R a f i d a in Bank has held a monopo ly over the im p o rt and domes t ic d is tr ibu- t ion of gold needed for i n d u s t r i al purposes; it sells gold to registered go ld sm i ths on ly, u n d er a quo ta system based on th e ir past t u r n o v er of gold. Travelers may f ree ly b r ing gold in to I raq, provided th at it is declared at the po int of en t ry on a fo re ign exchange f o rm. Changes during 1976 January 1. Following the exp ira t ion on December 31, 1975 of the b i la teral paymen ts agreements with Egypt - All commercial banks and in su rance companies were nationalized on J u ly 14, 1964. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and the People's Republic of Ch ina, settlements with these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. Exports on a barter basis were discon- tinued in principle; under the barter system, the export of certain "new" exports had been l inked to the import of prohibited items. May L The import program for c a l end ar year 1976 came into effect. It made provision for imports valued at ID 1 .316 billion, compared with an in i t ial allocation of ID 1.15 b i l l ion for the n in e -mon th program for April-December 1975. June 1. The Exchange Control Law No. 19 of March 13, 1961, as amended, was revoked. Exchange control henceforth was based on the provisions of the Cen t ral Bank Law of 1976. IRAQ 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 2 .13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound. Since J u ne 23, 1972, however, the au tho r i t ies have not m a in t a in ed the exchange ra te of the Irish pound w i th in prescribed ma rg in s, except for s te r l ing. The Cen- t ral Bank of I re land quotes the pound s t e r l ing at par w i th the Irish pound, and transac t ions in s ter l ing are f ree of commission. The Bank also quotes buy ing and se l l ing rates for other currencies, which are app rox ima te ly equal to the rates quoted against s ter l ing in London. As of December 31, 1976, the Central Bank's buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1 .7025 and US$1.7015, respectively, per Irish pound. Certain cap i tal transactions invo lv ing inves tment cu r rency (see section on Capital, below) take place at d i f fe rent e f fec t ive ra tes; on December 31, 1976 the inves tment cu r rency p r em i um was 413/s per cent (based on the spot exchange ra te of US$1.6990 per Ir ish p o u n d ). Forward t r an s a c t ions between au thor ized banks and the ir cus tomers mu st have an u n d e r l y i ng commerc ial t r an s a c t ion. On February 15, 1961, I re land f o rm a l ly accepted the obligations of A r t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the au tho r i ty for app rov ing no rmal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries if they are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are adm in- istered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Irish exchange control regulations d is t ingu ish between (1) the Scheduled Territories, cons is t ing of Ireland, Northern Ire land, Great B r i ta in, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and Gibraltar, and (2) the rest of the world. The latter is subdivided in to ( 1) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA ), i.e., the coun tr ies which on June 23, 1972 ceased to be regarded as Scheduled Terri- tor ies ;1 (2) EEC member coun tr ies other than the 1 The Overseas Sterling Area thus comprises Au s t r a l i a, Bahamas, Bahra in, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British I n d i an Ocean Te r r i to ry, British V i r g in Is lands, B run e i, Cayman Islands, Cyp ru s, Fa lk land Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, G renada, Guyana, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and S ikk im, Jama ica, Jo rd an, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leewa rd Is lands, Lesotho, Ma law i, M a l a y s i a, M a ld iv e s, M a l t a, M a u r i t i us a nd D e p e n d e n c y, N am i b ia (Sou th West A f r i c a ), N a u r u, New Zealand, N ig e r i a, Oman, Pak is tan, P apua New Gu inea, P i tca irn Islands, Qa ta r, St. Helena and Depen- dencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, S ingapore, Solomon Islands, South Afr ica, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuva lu (E l l ice I s l a n d s ), Uganda, Un i ted A rab Emirates, Western Samoa, W indwa rd Islands, People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. 244 Un i ted Kingdom and Ireland; (3) Rhodesia; and (4) the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST), which consists of all other coun t r ie s. Paymen ts to and f r om other Scheduled Terr i tor ies may be made f ree ly in Irish pounds or pounds s te r l ing; ce r ta in in su rance pay- men ts between Scheduled Territories, however, may be made in fo re ign currenc ies .2 Au tho r ized paymen ts to coun tr ies ou ts ide the Scheduled Terr i tor ies other than Rhodesia may be made in Ir ish pounds or s te r l ing th rough an External Account or in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an Ex ternal Account or in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of per- mitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in foreign currency other than Rhodes ian cu r rency; paymen ts to Rhodesia are subject to special regu la t ions. Residents are defined as persons who are p e rm an en t ly resident, for exchange con trol purposes, in the Scheduled Terri- tor ies. However, some Irish regu la t ions are in terms of Irish res iden ts ( res iden ts of I r e l a n d) only. Ireland is a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the exchange control regu la t ions of the Un i ted K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts Accoun ts of persons res ident in the Scheduled Terri- tories are trea ted as res ident accounts. Accounts of persons res ident in coun t r ies outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with pay- ments authorized for t rans fer to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, with trans- fers f rom other External Accounts in Irish pounds or sterling, with the proceeds in Irish pounds or sterling of any fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resident of a coun t ry outside the Scheduled Territories to an au thor ized bank in Ire land, and with the proceeds of Irish cu r rency notes (the crediting of notes in d enom in a t ions exceed ing £Jr 10 requ i res spe- cific app rova l) or s ter l ing notes received f rom outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies. Balances on these accounts may be t r an s f e r r ed free ly to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accoun ts. The open ing of such accounts, and all deb i ts and credits thereto, require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. 2 Foreign cu r renc ies are all cu r renc ies o th er t h an those of a Sched- uled Territory. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments All impor ts of commodities o r i g i n a t i ng in Rhodesia require a special license. W i th th is exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to three types of adm in- istrative control. Under the first type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, impo r ts of ce r ta in commodities are subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve re s t r ic t ion s, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis." Indi- vidual import licenses are requ ired for these goods and are used to l im it the qu an t i ty of goods impo r ted. In addition, special quota res tr ic t ions apply to (a) cycle tires f rom non-OECD coun t r ies and J a p a n, and (b) certain textiles and ya rns o r ig in a t ing in any of 16 spe- cified countries or terr i tor ies .4 Second, impo r ts of ce r ta in goods f rom non-EEC sources may f r om t ime to t ime be subject to restriction or surveillance by v i r tue of EEC decisions, d irec t ives, or regu la t ions. All other impo r ts generally are f ree of qu an t i t a t ive res t r ic t ion. Under the third type of control, prior permission of the Cen tral Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months a f t er the da te of the order. In addi- tion, Ireland operates a system of su rve i l lance licensing for imports f rom all sources of ce r ta in foo twear, cloth- ing, and other textiles, and for impo r ts f r om non-EEC sources of sisal binder tw ine; under this system, licenses generally are issued v i r tua l ly au toma t ica l ly. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to impo r ts; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock products. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or s ter l ing to an External Account is granted au toma t ica l ly. Exchange control forms are required for impo rt payments exceeding £Ir 2,000 to coun t r ies outside the Scheduled Terri- tories. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Scheduled Territories are not sub- ject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Scheduled Territories. Paymen ts to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisi- bles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. 3 Most of the remaining quotas are being g radua l ly increased in accordance with EEC commitments and w i th an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Ag reemen t; the en la rgemen ts are made on a global basis, although the obligations relate only to goods o r i g i n a t i ng in the Un i ted Kingdom and the o ther EEC coun t r ie s. 4 Bu lgar ia, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Repub l ic of Ch in a, Czecho- slovakia, German Democra t ic Republic, Hong Kong, H u n g a r y, I n d i a, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. IRELAND For tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of <£ Ir 300 a person for each trip. For business trave l, up to <£Ir 2,000, at a rate of <£Ir 40 a day, is allowed for each jou rn ey, or a l terna t ive ly up to £ I r 3 00 for each t r ip. L im i ts are also established for a l lowances for educa t ion and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amoun ts are approved, provided that no unau thor ized export of capital is involved. Not more than £ Ir 300 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the fo rm of currency notes. Persons travel- ing to des t ina t ions ou ts ide the Un i t ed Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £,Ir 25 in Scheduled Territory currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Scheduled Territories (o ther than Rhodesia) may take w i th them any foreign cu r rency notes that they brought in to Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other bank- notes that may be taken to the United K ingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a l im i ted range of goods. There is a special restriction on exports to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Scheduled Territories must ob ta in payment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if their value exceeds <£ Ir 100. When payment is received in fo re ign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank. Exchange control fo rms are required for exports exceeding £Jr 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if fore ign currencies are received they must be o f fe red for sale to an author- ized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any fore ign currency held by a person af ter his re tu rn f rom a t r ip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent t r ip abroad. There are no l im i ta- tions on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of capital between Ireland and other Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control and take place at the official exchange rate. Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sched- uled Territories. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to OSA countries, EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom, or RNST countries are approved up to a l im it of <£Ir 20,000 a f am i l y; there is no such allowance for emigration to Rhodesia. Where the total va lue of an emigrant's assets exceeds <£Ir20,000, the t rans fer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years f rom the emi- 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND grant's redesignation as a nonres iden t, i.e., from the date of departure f rom Ireland. A f ter the four-year period, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Scheduled Territory residents who have never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time af ter redesignation for the restricted f u n ds to be transferred outside the Scheduled Territories through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Irish registered securities or in sterling securities.5 For Irish residents tak ing up emp loyment and resi- dence in an EEC coun t ry other th an the Un i ted King- dom, app l ica t ions are considered to t r a n s f er Irish or U.K. assets to the ir new coun t ry of residence in excess of <£ Ir 20,000; the add i t ional f a c i l i t i es are au tho r ized at the off ic ial rate of exchange if they are shown to be app rop r ia te to ensure the app l ican t's f reedom to take up emp loyment in the coun t ry concerned. App l ica t ions for the t r a n s f er of res iden t-owned cap i tal for purposes other than emigration are considered on their merits, but there are special fac i l i t ies for residents tak ing up employment in EEC countries other than the Un i ted Kingdom and for direct inves tment in such countries. There are no restrictions on the inf low of capital, but inward direct inves tment f rom ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories requires exchange control app roval (which no rma l ly is granted) and net in f lows in to the banks may be sub ject to guidelines set f rom t ime to t ime by the Cen- t ral Bank; at the end of 1976 no such gu ide l ines were in force. Purchases of unquo t ed Ir ish s e cu r i t i es by non- res iden ts of the Scheduled Te r r i to r ies requ i re exchange control approva l, and the purchase of n o n u r b an l a nd by fo re ign na t iona ls in most cases requ ires app roval by the Land Comm iss ion. Incom ing cap i tal received in fore ign currencies must be o f fe red for sale to an au tho r ized bank. However, inv e s tm ent cu r rency, i.e., the fo r e ign currency proceeds f rom the sale ma in ly of fore ign currency securities ° sold outside the Scheduled Terri- tories, may be fu l ly reinvested in fore ign currency secu- rities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by ''switches" f rom secu- rities so held, and that the inves tment is carried out w i th in six months f rom the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with inves tment cu r rency on or a f t er April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the off ic ial ra te. Inves tment currency may be invested tempo ra r i ly in fo re ign currency cer t if ica tes of deposit and s im i l ar paper w i th up to s ix mon ths to run to f inal m a t u r i t y, w i t h o ut in cu r r ing the need to comply w i th the 25 per cent requ irement on m a t u r i ty or resale, prov ided that the l im it of six mon ths for the ho ld ing of inv e s tm ent currency is not exceeded. The entire foreign currency proceeds 5 Securities solely payable in pounds s t e r l ing and q u o t ed on a recognized security market within the Scheduled Territories. 0 Foreign currency secur i t ies are all secu r i t ies on wh ich c ap i t al monies and dividends are payable or op t iona l ly payab le in a f o r e i gn currency and that are quoted on a recognized security ma rke t. 246 f r om the sale outside the Scheduled Territories of property for personal use owned by residents are normally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; where part of such a property is sold, the fu ll foreign currency proceeds must be sold in the official exchange market. Residents may obtain, subject to individual permission, reasonable amounts of invest- ment currency to purchase f rom non-Scheduled Terri- tory residents property outside the Scheduled Territories for personal use; paymen ts for a t tendant expenses and imp rovemen ts must also be made w i th inves tment cur- rency. App roval is no rma l ly l im i ted to one property a f am i ly. Purchases f rom residents of the Scheduled Terri- tories mu st be settled in s ter l ing. Transactions in secu- rities are controlled to ensure that cap i tal is not trans- fe r red ou ts ide the Scheduled Terr i tor ies. Direct inve s tment outside the Scheduled Territories requires pr ior approval and may no rma l ly be financed w i th inv e s tm ent currency or by bo r row ing fore ign cur- rency; in cer ta in cases the use of off ic ial exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member countries other than the Un i ted Kingdom. The foreign currency proceeds of the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories are not eligible for sale in the investment currency ma rke t. Dea l ings in Irish registered secur i t ies are permitted f ree ly between residents of the Scheduled Territories. Specific app roval is required for all dealings by Irish res iden ts in secu r i t ies payab le in Rhodes ian cu r r en cy. R em i t t an c es of cash g i f ts or personal loans to OSA coun t r ies are no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted up to £Jr 1,000 a donor a ca lendar y e a r; the co r respond ing l im it for other non-Scheduled Terr i tor ies except Rhodes ia is < £ I r 3 00 a donor a year. For dependen ts, an add i t ional amount of up to £Tr 2,000 a donor a year in cash gifts or personal loans may be remitted to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. Authorized banks may free ly accept deposits in foreign currency f rom nonres iden ts of the Scheduled Territories and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrowing f rom non r e s id en ts of the Scheduled Terr i tor ies; such app l ica t ions are considered on the ir me r i ts and, except as regards bo r row ing for the acqu is i t ion of p rope r ty for personal use, on the benef it likely to accrue to the economy. Pub l ic sector bo r row ing outside the Sched- uled Te r r i to r ies is u n d e r t a k en fo l low ing consu l ta t ion w i th the C en t r al Bank. L e n d i ng of Irish cu r rency to non r e s id en ts of the Scheduled Terr i tor ies is not no rma l ly p e rm i t t ed, except to the ex tent th at ov e rd r a ft fac i l i t ies may be provided by the banks to members of non- Scheduled Territories' d ip loma t ic and consular missions in I re land, and except that banks may freely make available loan and ove rd ra ft fac i l i t ies in Irish pounds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or sterling to residents of OSA countries, provided that the unde r ly ing t ransac t ion is a trade t ransac t ion or one associated w i th the movement of goods. Provided that the company is not a med ium for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of an EEC-controlled company can, subject to exchange control approval, ob ta in f rom Irish banks all the f inance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ire land. Dea l ings in gold bu l l ion are restricted, and no dealings take place in I re land. A l though there are no import res tr ic t ions, res iden ts requ i re specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bu l l ion ou ts ide I re land. Specific exchange control per- mission also is required for the export of gold coins and bu l l ion ou ts ide Ire land. Specific permission to buy or export gold co ins or bu l l ion n o rm a l ly is given on ly for bona f ide num i sm a t ic or i n d u s t r i al purposes, respectively. Res iden ts of Ireland are not pe rm i t ted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1976 In add i t ion to the changes listed below, ce r ta in changes in q u a n t i t a t i ve impo rt r egu l a t ions were made in accordance w i th EEC dec is ions, regu la t ions, and d irec- tives; most of these re la ted to tex t i les or beef and veal. January 1. The exchange con t rol no t ice govern ing direct inv e s tm ent in I re land was reissued. No policy changes were invo lved, but ex i s t ing policies and proce- dures were c lar if ied and a section on i n t e r c om p a ny accoun ts was in t roduced. January 1. With ce r ta in exceptions, import duties on goods o r ig in a t ing in m emb er states of the EEC o ther than the U n i t ed K ingdom were f u r t h er reduced f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent of the basic rates app l icab le on Janua ry 1, 1972. A fu r th er a l ignm ent on the com- mon ex te rnal t a r i ff of the EEC reduced the r em a i n i ng d i f f e r e n t i al to 20 per cen t. January 1. The impo rt du ty on lea ther foo twear o r ig in a t ing in the U n i t ed K ingdom and No r th e rn I re land was reduced f rom 10 per cent to 9 per cent for the period to J u ne 30, 1976. The ra te of d u ty for such impor ts was reduced to 18.5 per cent for o ther EEC member states and associated coun t r ies and to 23.5 per cent for other coun t r ie s. January 5. The 2.2 per cent dep rec ia t ion of the Irish "green pound" of October 1975 became app l icab le to beef and vea l. On J u ly 1, it was app l ied also to common wheat. March L Va r ious ra tes of v a lu e - add ed tax were mod i f ied. The general ra te was increased f rom 6.75 per cent to 10 per cen t. March 15. A f u r t h er 1.9 per cent deprec ia t ion of the Irish "green pound" became app l icab le to specified products. IRELAND March 16. S ta tu tory In s t rum ent No. 61 of 1976 extended to all sources the su rve i l lance l icen s ing for impo r ts of cer ta in footwear previously subject to these procedures only when of non-EEC origin. March 23. The Gov e rnm ent borrowed the equ iva lent of US$184.15 m i l l ion at med ium term f rom the EEC. On April 9, the Gove rnment borrowed a f u r t h er US$114.8 million. April L The exchange control notice se t t ing fo r th regulations of relevance to persons t a k i ng up pe rmanent residence in I re land was reissued. There were no m a jor policy changes, but the a dm i n i s t r a t i ve procedures were exp la ined more f u l ly regarding ( 1) persons and assets e l ig ib le for exemp t ion f r om the su r render requ i remen ts in respect of fo re ign cu r rency, fo r e ign cu r rency secu- r i t ies, other fo re ign assets, and gold, and (2) the invest- ment currency p rem ium scheme. April 22. The Cen tral Bank ceased to cons ider app l i- cations to t reat as e l ig ib le for the inv e s tm ent cu r rency p r em i um those comm iss ions or fees that were a t t r ibu ta- ble to the u n d e rw r i t i ng of fo re ign cu r rency securities. April 22. The Cen t ral Bank restricted to persons who had taken up established residence in I re land prior to Ap r il 22, 1974 the f a c i l i ty wh ich had allowed persons f rom ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories t ak ing up per- m a n e nt residence in Ireland to dispose in the investment cu r rency m a r k e t, a f t er two years' con t inuous residence and subject to prior Cen tral B ank approva l, of 75 per cent of the f u t u re sale or l i q u i d a t i on proceeds of fore ign currency securities held by them on the date of rede s igna t ion (or acqu i red by switches f rom fore ign cu r r en cy secu r i t ies acqu ired w h i le n o n r e s i d e n t ). The correspond ing f a c i l i ty in respect of personal real estate acqu ired while non res ident was revoked en t ire ly. April 28. U n t il f u r t h er no t ice, au tho r ized dealers were requested not to accept, exchange, or deal in I t a l i an b ankno t es of the d enom in a t ions of Lit 50,000 and Lit 100,000 w i t h o ut the p r ior app roval of the Central Bank of Ireland. May 10. The Cen t ral B ank w i thd r ew its request to b a n ks of J a n u a ry 1973 to deposit w i th the Cen tral Bank 50 per cent of any net cap i tal in f low s. Prev ious ly, the deposit requ i rement could be wa ived, sub ject to prior c o n s u l t a t i on w i th the Cen t ral B ank, for cap i tal in f lows that assisted in the f inanc ing of m a j or i n d u s t r i al devel- opment projects. June 25. The Comm i s ion of the EEC extended f rom June 30 to December 31 its au tho r i z a t ion of Decem- ber 22, 1975 for I re land to m a i n t a in protective measures in respect of foo twear w i th uppers of leather (du ty of 9 per cent on impo r ts of lea ther foo twear f rom the Un i ted K ingdom, 18.5 per cent on imports from other EEC member states and associated coun tr ies, and 23.5 per cent on those f rom th i rd coun t r ies ). October 11. The Irish "green pound" was depreciated by 7.589 per cent. November 9. The Government borrowed US$300 m i l l ion at m ed ium term in the Eurocurrency market. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System l The par v a l ue is 0.120370 g ram of fine gold per Israel Pound. Since August 5, 1975 the au tho r i t ies ceased to en su re that the exchange ra te for the Israel pound wou ld be based on its par v a l u e. They es tab l ish f r om t ime to t ime the b u y i ng ra te of the Israel pound in terms of a basket of five currencies based p r im a r i ly on the s t r u c t u re of Israe li exports; on December 3 1, 1976 th is rate was I£8 .77 = US$1. The B ank of Israel establishes b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes for ce r ta in other cu r renc ies, based on the rate for the U.S. do l la r. Au thor ized b anks a re p e rm i t t ed to buy and sell fo r e ign currenc ies at spot rates d i f f e r e nt f r om those o f f i c i a l ly quoted by the Bank of Israel, but they may quo te rates on ly w i t h in the range es tab l ished by the quo t a t ions of the la t te r. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in i s t e r ed by the D e p a r tm e nt of Foreign Exchange Con t rol of the M i n i s t ry of F inance, under the respons ib i l i ty of the Con t ro l ler of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation w i th other gov e rnm ent agencies and is carr ied out th rough au tho r i z ed b ank s. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts and receipts m u st be effec ted in the cur- rency and m a n n er prescribed by the exchange control au tho r i t ie s. Se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r ies w i th wh ich pay- men ts ag reemen ts are in force 2 are u s u a l ly made in U.S. do l la rs as an accoun t ing u n i t. Nonresident Accounts Non re s iden t s' f u n ds a re held e i ther on fo r e ign cur- rency accounts or on local cu r rency accoun ts. The open ing of non re s ident fo r e ign cu r rency accounts does not requ i re p r ior app rova l. The p r i n c i p al type of non- res ident fo r e ign cu r r en cy account is the PATACH account. The ho lder may f ree ly e f fect t r an s f e rs f r om h is fo re ign currency accoun t; he may also convert f u n ds held in the account i n to local cu r rency at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange. Local cu r r en cy accounts of non r e s id en ts are of the f o l l ow i ng types: ( 1) Registered Accounts—for p a ym e n ts to and hold- ings of fo re ign av i a t ion, sh ipp ing, i n s u r a n c e, and f i lm compan ies and for n o n t r a n s f e r a b le ho ld ings of fo rmer re s iden t s —may be established on ly w i th special approval. Funds acquired f rom the sale of real estate and awa i t ing repa t r ia t ion mu st also be held in Registered Accounts. Av ia t ion, sh ipp ing, and insurance companies may freely XA su rcha rge of 15 per cent is applied to purchases of fo re ign exchange for paymen ts in respect of ce r ta in invisibles, inc lud ing fo r- e ign t rave l. 2 B raz il and Po r tuga l. 248 conve rt at the o f f i c i al ra te of exchange any amoun ts he ld on these accoun ts wh ich are su rp lus to local r e q u i r em e n t s; f i lm companies may do so u n d er ind iv idu al a r r a n g em e n ts made w i th each comp any. Registered Account f u n ds held by f o rm er res iden ts may be used for i n v e s tm e nt in l is ted Israe li secu r i t ies, for purchase of real es ta te, for tou r i st expenses in Israel up to an am o u nt of I £400 a day for the account ho lder and for each m emb er of h is f am i l y, for r em i t t an c es of up to I£ 15,000 a year in support of re la t ives who are resi- den ts of I s r a e l, for the s e t t l em e nt of taxes payab le in Israel by the owner of the accoun t, and for do n a t ions to p u b l ic and ch a r i t ab le i n s t i t u t i o n s. Funds rep re sen t ing the sales proceeds of ce r ta in real es ta te become t rans- f e r a b le a f t er f ive yea rs, in equal i n s t a l lm e n ts over the f o l l ow i ng f ive -year period. Own e r sh ip of Reg is tered Accoun ts may not be t r a n s f e r r e d. (2) Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts—to hold the proceeds f r om the conve rs ion by tou r i s ts or t ravel agen ts of any k i nd of fo re ign cu r r en cy or of State of Israel D ev e lopm ent Loan bonds. (3) Other non r e s id ent accoun ts in local cu r rency may be used to hold f u n ds der ived f r om f o rm er inves t- m en ts th at a re e l ig ib le for t r a n s f er at the off ic ial exchange ra te. Ba lances may be t r an s f e r r ed f ree ly be tween non re s iden t s. The accoun ts may be l iqu id a t ed at any t ime by the purchase of f o r e i gn exchange at the o f f i c i al ra te; such fo re ign exchange may be f r e e ly t ran s- ferred abroad or credited to a PATACH account. Funds in these accoun ts may also be used w i t h in Israel, and no l i m it is placed on the am o u nt t h at may be w i thd r awn. Israeli res iden ts who a re t empo r a r i ly l i v i ng and earn- ing abroad may m a i n t a in fo re ign cu r rency in tempo ra ry P AM AZ accounts in Israel. Ba lances in such accounts may be f r e e ly used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may on ly convert these f u n ds in to local cu r rency at the o f f ic ial exchange ra te or t r a n s f er them to a PAZAK account. Imm i g r a n ts and t empo r a ry res iden ts have the r ight to m a i n t a in fore ign cu r rency deposits in PAMAZ accounts for the first ten years a f t er a r r iv al in Israel. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Res iden ts may m a i n t a in fore ign currency deposits w i th au tho r ized b a n ks in Israel on e i ther ( 1) PAZAK accoun ts, wh ich may be held by all rec ip ien ts of foreign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated f r om domes t ic sources; (2) T AM AM accounts, wh i ch may be he ld by rec ip ien ts of res t i tu t ion paymen ts and d i s ab i l i ty pensions; or (3) the above-mentioned P AM AZ accoun ts. PAZAK accounts are d em and or t ime deposit accounts d e n om i n a t ed in conver t ib le currencies. A ll foreign exchange receipts, except those derived f r om exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a l loca t ions by the M i n i s t ry of F inance but i n c l u d i ng export proceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accoun ts w i th authorized dealers, who mu st redeposit the fo re ign cur- rency f u n ds w i th the Bank of Israel. Account ho lders m ay r e t a in fo r e ign exchange in th is m a n n er or m ay exchange it i n to local cu r r en cy. Account ho lders may u se fo r e ign exchange ba lances in PA ZAK accoun ts to m ake any au tho r i z ed fo re ign p aym en t s. Ba lances in PAZAK accoun ts a re not nego t iab le be tween re s iden t s, but on ly am o ng membe rs of the imm e d i a te f am i ly of the account holder. TAMAM accoun ts also a re d em a nd or t ime depos it accoun ts in conv e r t ib le cu r renc ies w i th au tho r ized dealers, who must redeposit the fore ign cu r rency f u n ds w i th the B ank of Is rae l. One t h i rd of conve r t ib le exchange rece ip ts de r ived f r om personal r e s t i t u t i on p aym en ts and f rom pens ions of disabled soldiers who served d u r i ng World War II may be c red i ted to TAMAM accoun ts. The p e rm i t t ed uses of T AM AM accoun ts i n c l u de t he f o l l ow i n g: ( 1) t he pu rcha se th rough t he m ed ium of the a u t h o r i z ed b ank h o l d i ng the a c count of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies d e n om i n a t ed in c o n v e r t i b le fo r- e ign cu r r en cy t h at are registered on a stock exchange in spec if ied fo r e ign coun t r i e s; ( 2) p a ym e nt of p r em iums on ex is t ing l i fe in su r an ce policies denom ina ted in fore ign cu r rency; ( 3) p a ym e nt of expenses in conn e c t ion w i th t ravel and subs is tence abroad in excess of the bas ic t ravel exchange a l loca t ion of the e q u i v a l e nt of US$450 a t r i p, p rov ided t h at not more t h an the e q u i v a l e nt of US$1 ,800 a t r ip is d r awn by the account ho lder and for each member of h is f a m i l y ;:* and (4) p a ym e nt of legal expenses r e s u l t i ng f r om r e s t i t u t i on c l a im s. NA TAD accoun ts a re t r a n s f er accoun ts in f o r e i gn exchange t h at a re used m a i n ly for t r a n s a c t i o ns in fo r- e ign secu r i t ies. As s ta ted above, ho lde rs of T AM AM accounts may purchase abroad foreign securities denom- in a t ed in conve r t ib le fo r e ign cu r rency and registered on a stock exchange in specified fo re ign coun t r ies. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded freely between res iden ts, th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of the authorized b ank t h at is the depos i tory, ag a in st p aym ent either w i th NATAD or TAMAM f u n ds or in Israel pound s. If the o r i g i n al buyer resells secu r i t ies bought w i th TAMAM account f u n ds for fo re ign cu r rency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accoun ts. Res iden ts who are not holders of TAMAM accoun ts may deposit the ir fo re ign exchange proceeds f rom the sale of fo r e ign secur i t ies in NATAD accoun ts. Ba lances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase f u r t h er fo re ign securities but are not negotiable between residents. If fo re ign securities are sold between res iden ts aga in st Israel pounds, the conversion fac tor used to establish their domestic currency va lue is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 30, 1976, it stood at I £9.62 per U.S. dollar. 8 US$3,000 a tr ip if no TAMAM f u n ds have been used for th is pu r- pose for th ree years. ISRAEL Imports and Import Payments A few impo r ts are proh ib i ted f rom all sources and a ll impo r ts f r om Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. A ll imports of goods f rom conve r t ib le cu r rency coun t r ies are free of a ll l i c e n s i ng and a dm i n i s t r a t i ve or q u a n t i t a t i ve restric- t ion s. These impo r ts are effec ted aga in st Free Impo rt Orders. O ther impor ts are sub ject to l icens ing. For commodities on the Au toma t ic Approval List, licenses are issued a u t om a t i c a l ly upon app l ica t ion. O ther per- m iss ib le impo r ts con s t i tu te the Restricted List. A ll com- modities whose impo r ta t ion is not liberalized are listed in a N eg a t ive List. Six basic food produc ts ( f r o z en m e a t, m i lk powder, whea t, oilseeds, edible f a t s, and s u g a r) are impor ted exc lus ive ly by or for account of the G o v e r nm e n t. Exchange to pay for i tems listed in the Free Impo rt Orders or to pay for l icensed impo r ts is g ran ted au to- m a t i c a l l y. A ll i n d i v i d u al im p o rt licenses must be coun te r- signed by the Depa r tment of Foreign Exchange Con- t rol of the M i n i s t ry of F inance. The cu r rency and me thod of p a ym e nt are prescribed in each l icense; if a conver t ib le cu r rency is prescribed, payment may be made in any conve r t ib le cu r rency. If p aym ent is to be made by d o c um e n t a ry c red i t, the fo re ign cu r rency requ i red may be pu rchased at the t ime of op en ing the c r ed i t. F u n ds not t r a n s f e r r ed abroad imm e d i a t e ly must be depos i ted in a spec ial account w i th the Bank of Is rael u n t il t r a n s f er is made. The app roval of the D e p a r tm e nt of Foreign Exchange Con t rol is requ i red for a ll impo r ts effec ted u n d er f o r e i gn c red i ts; fo r e ign c u r r e n cy f i n a n c i ng is not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed except for raw m a t e r i a ls or c ap i t al goods. V i r t u a l ly all imports are subject to an impo rt sur- charge of 15 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue. The m a in ex emp t ions a re for n ew s p r i nt and u n c ut d i am o n d s. A v a l ue added tax is levied on almost all imported and dom e s t i c a l ly produced goods, o ther t h an c a p i t al goods. Payments for Invisibles 4 Most p aym en ts abroad for i n v i s i b l es r e q u i re i n d i- v i d u al licenses. Each res ident is a l lowed exchange up to US$150 a t r a n s a c t i on wh ich is ob t a in ab le on d em and, for c e r t a in purposes such as the purchase of books, membersh ip dues, and reg is tra t ion in a un ive rs i ty. For tou r i st t r av el ab road, there is an exchange a l lowance e q u i v a l e nt to US$450 a t rave ler for each j o u r n ey (US$150 for children under 1 2 ). For t ravel for busi- ness reasons, the re is an add i t ion al a l lowance of US$50 a day for the first 20 days. Expor ters may exceed these l im i ts by u s i ng add i t ion al f u n ds r e su l t ing f r om export proceeds. Not more th an I£200 in Israeli bankno tes may be t ak en out by trave lers. Foreign tour is ts l e a v i ng Israel are perm i t ted to repu rchase th rough au tho r ized dealers fo r e ign cu r rency up to US$30, and up to US$100 in State of Israel Bonds. Adu lt residents t r av e l ing abroad must pay a travel tax of I £1,000 4 See also foo tno te 1. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL p lus 15 per cent of the price of the t icke t. Travelers to specified coun tr ies are taxed at a lower rate; these in c lude Cyprus, E th iop ia, and Rom an i a. Imm i g r a n ts and the ir fam i l ies are exempt from travel tax for three years f rom the date of imm ig r a t ion or of e n t ry as t empo r a ry residents. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Most exports do not requ i re licenses if paid for in f ree ly conve r t ib le cu r renc ie s. For some commod i t ies, however, export l icens ing is re ta ined for the purpose of q u a l i ty con t ro l. The M i n i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t ry m a i n t a i ns a check on export t ran sac t ions w i th a low va lue -added con tent wh ich are made w i th b i la te ral p a r tn e r s; th is is done to discourage switch t ransac t ions. Export proceeds in fo re ign cu r renc ies mu st be su r rende red or held in a PAZAK accoun t. Exports of most commod i t ies are e l ig ib le for rebates of e s t ima ted i n t e r n al ind i r e ct taxes and the impo rt surcharge and are based on domes t ic v a l ue added. At the end of 1976, the p a ym e nt ranged f r om I £ 1.91 to I £ 2.63 per US$ 1 of gross expo rt v a lu e, w i th the h igher rates app l icab le to commod i t ies w i th a h igher p ropo r t ion of domes t ic va lue added. For inpu ts d i r e c t ly impor ted by an expor ter there is a system of rebate of customs du t ies, wha rf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f r om inv i s ib les mu s t, in gene ra l, be su r rende red. A l t e r n a t i v e l y, they may be kept in fo re ign exchange on PAZAK accoun ts, ba lances on wh ich may be exchanged in to Israel cu r rency at any t ime or used to make au tho r ized p a ym e n ts abroad. Any res ident is f ree to accept specified conve r t ib le cu r renc ies f r om tou r is ts in payment for services and commod i t ies o ther t h an comme rc ial expor ts, secu r i t ies, and real es ta te; such rece ip ts mu st be su r rende red w i t h in a few days. Hotels are e l ig ib le for ind i r e ct tax rebates based on the leng th of stay of fo re ign tou r is ts; on Decem- ber 3 1, 1976 the rebate was I £1 .51 per US$1. One t h i rd of the fo re ign exchange received by resi- den ts of Israel as re s t i tu t ion p aym en t s, and as pens ions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be re ta ined in TAMAM accoun ts and the o ther two th i rds may be held in PAZAK accoun ts. For ten years a f t er en te r ing Israel, new imm i g r a n ts a re exempt f rom su r r end e r ing the ir fo re ign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these fo re ign cu r r en- cies w i th au tho r ized banks in Israel or w i th b anks abroad. Tour is ts v i s i t i ng Israel a re expected to b r i ng w i th them the amoun ts of fore ign cu r rency t h at they w i ll need d u r i ng the ir s tay. Not more t h an I £200 in Israel bankno tes may be brought in by t rave le rs. Tourists and others v i s i t ing Israel who are holders of Reg is tered Accounts (see section on Non re s ident Accoun ts, above) may draw upon such accoun ts to the ex tent of I £400 a day for themselves and the same am o u nt for each 250 member of the ir f am i l i e s; if they are holders of other non res ident local cu r rency accoun ts, they may draw on th em w i thout l im i t. Capital Foreign exchange r ep r e s en t ing in com ing cap i tal and be long ing to a res ident mu st be su r rende red at the o f f ic ial ra te or held in a PAZAK accoun t. Capital brought i n to Israel for the purpose of inve s tment may, subject to app rov a l, be g r an t ed p r e f e r e n t i al t r e a tm e nt in accord- ance w i th the Law for the Encou ragement of Cap i tal I n v e s tm e n ts of May 23, 1976, wh ich, i n t er a l i a, perm i ts a non r e s id ent who has made an "approved" inves tment in fo r e ign c u r r e n cy to t r a n s f er a ll h is profits abroad in the same cu r rency at the o f f i c i al ra te. C u r r e nt policy is to g rant "approved" s t a tus only to enterprises in selected f ie lds of p roduc t ion t h at f u l f i ll one of the fo l low ing c o n d i t i o n s: ( 1) t h at they a re es tab l ished e i ther in "p r io r i ty areas" or in less developed areas; (2) th at they are expo r t -o r ien ted, i.e., e i ther at least 50 per cent of o u t p ut is expor ted or e x i s t i ng p roduc t ive capac i ty is inc rea sed by at least 50 per cent w h i le at least 50 per cent of the a d d i t i o n al o u t p ut is expo r ted; (3) tha t, a l though for economic reasons the en te rp r ise cannot be e s tab l i shed in a p r i o r i ty area or in a less developed area, its p roduc t ion is of the impo r t - sub s t i tu t ion type; or (4) t h at the pro ject a ims at f a c i l i t a t i ng the abso rp t ion of imm i g r a n t s. There is no longer any d i f f e r e n ce be tween an "approved i n v e s tm e n t" and any o ther i n v e s tm e nt made by a n o n r e s i d e nt in fo re ign cu r r en cy i n s o f ar as h is r igh ts to t r a n s f er abroad the p r in c ip al or the in te re st or prof i ts on h is i n v e s tm e nt a re conce rned, and r e p a ym e n ts and am o r t i z a t i on of c ap i t al may also be t r a n s f e r r ed ( f or real es ta te, the t r a n s f er is sub ject to "five-year" and "ten- year" r e s t r i c t i o n s ). However, the d i f f e r e n ce does s t i ll ex i st as regards o ther bene f i t s, such as in come t ax, con- cess ions, and g ran t s. I n v e s tm e n ts m a de by non r e s id en ts p r ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1958 and i n v e s tm e n ts made by n o n r e s i d e n ts in fo r e ign exchange a f t er t h at da te can be t r a n s f e r r ed ab road. The proceeds of i n v e s tm e n ts in real es ta te, however, can o n ly be t r a n s f e r r ed f ive yea rs a f t er i ts purchase, in f ive e q u al a n n u al i n s t a l lm e n ts over t he f o l l ow i ng f i v e - y e ar pe r iod. Proceeds a c c r u i ng f r om the r e p a t r i a t i on or l i q u i d a t i on of fo r e ign assets he ld by re s iden ts are t r e a t ed in the same way as proceeds f r om inv is ib les. Any res ident may r e t a in real es ta te ab road, but not money, secur i t ies, or the in come f r om such assets; in a d d i t i o n, new imm i g r a n ts m ay r e t a in t h e ir l i q u id assets for t en years. T r a n s f e rs abroad of a c ap i t al n a t u re by re s iden ts o ther t h an n ew imm i g r a n ts a re g en e r a l ly not p e rm i t t ed. Owners of TAMAM deposits are e n t i t l ed to purchase f o r e i gn secu r i t ies reg is tered at stock exchanges in speci- f ied fo r e ign coun t r ie s. Foreign secu r i t ies purchased to the deb it of a TAMAM depos it can be sold abroad by t h e ir owne rs, or in Israel e i t h er ag a in st fo r e ign cu r rency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to owners of o ther T AM AM or NATAD deposits or aga in st Israel pounds. The proceeds of the sale may be c red i ted to the T AM AM account p rev ious ly deb i ted for the p u r- chase. The owner of fo re ign secu r i t ies bought t h r o u gh TAMAM or NATAD accoun ts is also allowed to se ll them to res iden ts aga inst Israel pounds, and the pu rcha ser in h is t u rn may sell them e i ther aga in st Israel pounds or aga inst fo re ign cu r r en cy (ab road or to ho lders of TAMAM or NATAD depo s i t s ); he is e n t i t l ed to depos it the fore ign cu r r en cy proceeds in a N A T AD accoun t. This is the on ly m a n n er in wh i ch NA TAD accoun ts can be estab- lished. The ho lder of a NATAD account may d r aw on it to purchase fo r e ign secu r i t ies abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NA TAD account f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy for fo re ign secu r i t ie s. It is also p e rm i s s ib le to pu rchase gold f r om mon ies in T A M AM and N A T AD accoun t s, the procedure b e i ng the same. A gene ral l icense a l lows au tho r i z ed dea le rs to p u r- chase real estate in Israel for non r e s id en t s. N o n r e s i d e n ts may f r e e ly pu rchase shares, provided t h at pu r ch a s es a re f in an c ed w i th conve r ted fo re ign c u r r e n c y; d eb en tu r e s, however, may be pu rchased by n o n r e s i d e n ts o n ly if th ey are quo ted on the Tel A v iv stock exchange. Direct loans in any fo rm to or f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts a re sub ject to l i c en s ing. Gold Re s iden t s, i n c l u d i ng p r iv a te persons, m ay f r e e ly ho ld gold in any f o rm e i ther in Is rael or ab road; purchases by private persons mu st be f inanced out of T AM AM or NATAD accoun t s, except for pu rchases of j ew e l ry and of articles c o n t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of go ld, such as wa tches. Gold can be sold on ly to an authorized dealer and can be b o u g ht o n ly f r om an a u t h o r i z ed dea le r. O ther r e s i d e n ts a re f o r b i d d en to t r a de in go ld, to t r a n s f er it f r om p lace to place, or to t a ke it out of Israel. Im p o r ts of gold a re p e rm i s s ib le o n ly if an impo rt l icense is o b t a i n e d. Impo r ts of gold for i n d u s- t r i al purposes a re t r an s a c t ed by f ive im p o r t i ng who le- sa lers. These who le sa le rs may sell the gold o n ly to pu rchase rs reg is tered w i th the Pu r ch a se Tax A dm i n i s- t r a t i o n. The l a t t er checks these pu rchases by each m a n u f a c t u r er a g a i n st the gold c o n t e nt of produc ts m a rk ed as "purchase tax pa id" in order to e l im i n a te the po s s ib i l i ty of sales of these q u a n t i t i es of gold on the m a r k et as b u l l i o n. Changes during 1976 January 1. S u b s t a n t i al im p o rt d u ty r e d u c t i o ns w ent i n to e f f e c t. January 4. The b u y i ng ra te for the Israel p o u nd was changed f r om I £7.10 = US$1 to I £7 .24 = US$1. February 4. The am o u nt of local c u r r e n cy a n o n- res ident may d raw on a registered a c count to d e f r ay tou r i st expenses in I s rael was ra i sed f r om I £.250 to I £400 a day. ISRAEL February 11. The b u y i ng rate for the Israel pound was changed f r om I£7 .24 = US$1 t o l £ 7 . 38 = US$1. February 15. The r e g u l a t i o ns gov e rn i ng foreign t r av el by res iden ts we re ex tens ive ly revised. For a few categories of t rave le rs exemp ted f r om the travel tax, the a l l ow a n ce was reduced to US$350 for each j o u r n e y, and for c h i l d r en u n d er 12 to US$150; the e x i s t i ng a l l ow a n ce of US$450 was m a i n t a i n ed for regu lar a d u lt t r a v e l e rs and for some of the categories of tax -exemp ted t rave le r s. For t ravel for bu s ine ss purposes an a d d i t i o n al a l l ow a n ce of US$50 a day, but not mo re t h an US$600 a t r av e l er a t r i p, was a u t h o r i z e d. The t r av el tax was inc rea sed f r om I £750 to I £1,000. February 15. A 15 per cent tempo ra ry surcharge on purchases of fo r e ign exchange for ce r ta in i n v i s i b le pay- men ts was i n t r o d u c e d. This surcharge affec ts, i n t er a l i a, the t r a v el a l l ow a n c e, in come paymen ts ab road, and pay- men ts for i n s u r a n c e, o ther t h an for im p o r ts or exports. I n v e s tm e nt income p aym en ts and expenses of exporters were exemp ted f r om t h is tax. The e x i s t i ng surcharge of 10 per cent on the pr ice of t ravel t icke ts was, at the same t im e, ra ised to 15 per cent. March J. The ind i rect tax rebates a p p l i c a b le to the expo rt of goods were increased to a range up to I £2.03 per US$1 of gross export receipts. The au tho r i t ies a n n o u n c ed t h at h e n c e f o r th these rebates wou ld be read- j u s t ed pari pasxu w i th changes in the exchange rate. March 11. The b u y i ng rate for the Israel pound was changed to I £7.32 = US$1. March 15. The m a x i m um ra te of i n d i r e ct tax reba te for expo r t e rs was ra ised to I £2.07 per US$1 of exports. April 12. The a d d i t i o n al a l low an ce of US$50 a day for bu s in e ss t r av el was increased to an am o u nt not exceed ing US$1,000 a t rave ler for each t r i p. April 18. The b u y i ng rate for tVve Israel pound was changed to I £7.67 = US$1. The m a x im um ra te of tax rebate was raised to I £2 .11 per US$1 of exports. April 28. The M i n i s t ry of Comme rce and I n d u s t ry raised the c e i l i ng on i ts c o n t r i b u t i on for export promo- t i on expenses of sm a ll expo r te rs s e l l i ng up to US$100,000 a yea r, f r om I£6 ,000 to I£ 10,000. May 4. Export p roduc t ion credits in Israel pounds g r a n t ed by the G o v e r nm e nt to expo r te rs were raised by 10-12 per cen t. May 15. The new r e g u l a t i o ns g o v e r n i ng p a ym e n ts received f r om tou r i s ts by ho te ls w ent i n to e f fec t. Hence- f o r t h, ho te ls w o u ld receive ind i r e ct tax rebates on ly if it cou ld be shown th at services had been supp l ied to t o u r i s ts ag a in st p a ym e nt in fo r e ign exchange or in local c u r r e n cy o r i g i n a t i ng in an au tho r i z ed conve rs ion. Tour- is ts p a y i ng t h e ir hotel b i l ls in Israel pounds a re requ i red to pay taxes, i n c l u d i ng the w e l f a re surcharge, ind i rect taxes, and the va lue -added tax, cons t i tu t ing an additional 28 per cen t, f r om wh i ch they w o u ld be exempt if p a y i ng in f o r e i gn cu r rency. May 20. The b u y i ng ra te for the Israel pound was changed to I £7.82 = US$1. The m a x im um ra te of tax reba te was increased to I £2 .13 per US$1 of exports. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL May 23. The new Law for the Encouragement of Capital Inves tmen ts was approved re troac t ive to Ap r il 1. June 24. The buy ing rate for the Israel pound was changed to I<£7 .97 = US$1. The m a x im um rate of tax rebate was raised to I £ 2 . 19 per US$1 of expor ts. July 1. An 8 per cent va lue-added tax on goods and services was in troduced. The export indu s t ry, as well as ce r ta in food s tu f f s, were exemp ted f r om i ts p rov is ions. July 13. Import perm i ts for canned fish produc ts f rom the Far East were tempo ra r i ly suspended. July 18. The va lue of the Israel pound ceased to be pegged to the U.S. dollar. Hencefor th, the exchange rate for the Israel pound wou ld be de term ined on the basis of a basket of five currencies. W i th the new exchange rate policy, the rate for the Israel pound was de te rm ined at US$1 = I£8 .12. The t ime l im it of at least 30 days between changes in the exchange rate was replaced by a system under which changes m ight be made any t ime up to 2 per cent provided the c um u l a t i ve amount of depreciation in each fou r -mon th period did not exceed 8 per cent; larger changes wou ld requ i re f u ll cab inet app rova l. There were several subsequent changes. On December 24 the ra te was set at US$1 = I£.8.90 w i th respect to the compos i te u n i t. On that da te the m a x im um ra te of tax rebate stood at I £2.63 per US$1 of exports. July 19. The m a x im um ra te of tax reba te was increased to I £2 .23 per US$1 of exports. August 24. Foreign tour is ts on leav ing were au tho- rized to repu rchase fo r e ign exchange up to US$100 in State of Israel Bonds, in add i t ion to the regu lar au tho- r iza t ion of US$30 in cash. October 15. The m a x im um ra te of tax rebate was increased to I £2.48 per US$1 of exports, w i thout any a d j u s tm e nt of the exchange ra te. November 26. The a r rangement for r e imbu r s em ent of expor ters' sales expenses in an am o u nt of I £0.10 per US$1 of exports was app l ied for 1977 to Au s t r a l i a, Greece, Mex ico, No rw ay, South A f r i c a, Sweden, and the Un i ted K ingdom. In 1976 the a r rangement had applied to Cyp rus, Ecuador, J a p a n, South A f r i c a, and Venezue la. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On M a r ch 30, 1960 an i n i t i al par v a l ue for the I t a l i an L i ra was e s t ab l i sh ed of L it 625 per U S $ 1. On December 20, 1 9 7 1, a c e n t r al ra te of Lit 581 .50 = US$ 1 was e s tab l i shed. On F e b r u a ry 13, 1973, how ev e r, I t a ly no t i f ied the F u nd t h at for the t ime b e i ng the exchange ra te for the l i ra on the o f f ic ial m a r k et for c u r r e nt t r a n s- ac t ions w o u ld not n e c e s s a r i ly be c o n f i n ed w i t h in the a n n o u n c ed l im i ts e i t h er in respect of the U.S. d o l l ar or in respect of EEC cu r r en c i e s. The ra te for the U.S. d o l l ar on December 3 1, 1976 was a b o ut L it 875 per US$1. D i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve exchange ra tes ar ise f r om the app l i- c a t ion of an exchange tax and two depo s it r e q u i r em e n t s. For most purchases of fo re ign exchange and most credits to n o n r e s i d e nt l i ra accoun ts or deb i ts to re s iden t -he ld f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy accoun t s, a l i ra depo s it e q u i v a l e nt to 40 per cent of the t r a n s a c t i on mu st be lodged w i th the B ank of I t a ly ( t he c e n t r al b a n k) and a tax of 31/2 per cent m u st be pa id to the T rea su ry. For most o u tw a rd t r a n s f e rs of res iden t -owned c a p i t a l, a depos it of 25 per cent or 50 per cent mu st be lodged w i th the Bank of I ta ly. The m o n e t a ry au tho r i t ies do not in p r i n c i p le i n t e r v e ne in the f o rw a rd exchange ma rke t; f o rw a rd prem iums and d iscoun ts are no rm a l ly l e ft to the in t e rp l ay of m a rk et forces, a l t h o u gh the B a nk of I t a ly m ay f r om t ime to t ime o f f er t he c omm e r c i al b a n ks c e r t a in sw ap f a c i l i t i e s. Au tho r ized b a n ks a re a l lowed to engage in spot exchange t r a n s a c t i o ns in any c u r r e n c y, and in f o rw a rd exchange t r an s a c t ions up to 360 days in m a j or c o n v e r t i b le and e x t e r n a l ly conve r t ib le cu r renc ie s ,1 wh en d e a l i ng w i th other b a n k s, or up to 180 d ays w h en d e a l i ng w i th non- b ank s. The p e rm i s s ib le am o u nt of f o rw a rd t r a n s a c t i o ns aga inst l i re is sub ject to a l i m it on net t r a n s a c t i o ns set i n d i v i d u a l ly for each b a n k. Fo rwa rd cover is f r e e ly pe rm i t ted o n ly for comm e r c i al t r an s a c t ion s; cover in respect of f i n a n c i al t r a n s a c t i o ns r e q u i r es a u t h o r i z a t i o n. Pub l ic co rpo r a t ions wh ich have been in s t ru c t ed to bor- row ab road on beha lf of the B a nk of I t a ly receive f u ll fo rw a rd cover for t h e ir debt serv ice p a ym e n t s. I ta ly f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f r om Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange con trol system is opera ted by the I t a l i an Exchange Office (U f f i c io I t a l i a no dei Cambi or U IC) on the basis of in s t ru c t ions issued by the M i n i s t ry of 1 A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian ( L u x e m b o u r g) f r a n c s, C a n a d i an dol- lars, Dan ish k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F r en ch f r a n c s, J ap an e se y e n, N e th e r l ands g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, P o r t u g u e se escudos, p o u n ds sterling, Spanish pesetas. Swedish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. do l lars. These c u r r e n c i es a re r e f e r r ed to in the I t a l i an r e g u l a t i o ns as c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i es or conto valutario c u r r e n c i e s. Fore ign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange mu st be e f fec ted th rough banks au tho r ized for th is pu r- pose. Im p o rt and export licenses, wh en requ i red, a re issued by the M i n i s t ry of F inance at the request of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Cer ta in impo r ts and exports r e q u i re the p r ior v isa of the N a t ion al Fore ign Trade I n s t i t u t e. Issues of secur i t ies by non re s iden ts requ i re the p r ior app rov al of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade and a re sub ject in a d d i t i on to the ru les gove rn ing the i s su ing in I ta ly of I t a l i an securities. Paymen ts to and f r om the R e p u b l ic of San M a r ino or Va t ican C i ty are not sub ject to exchange con t ro l. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th fore ign coun tr ies must no rma l ly be made in c o n v e r t i b le cu r renc ies or in l i re on Foreign Accoun ts. For se t t lemen ts w i th Egyp t, special a r range- m en ts a re a p p l i c a b le u n d er a debt l i q u i d a t i on ag reement w i th t h at c o u n t r y. Nonresident Accounts The m a in types of accoun ts in I t a l i an l i re wh ich non- r e s id en ts a re a l lowed to m a i n t a in w i th au tho r ized b anks in I t a ly a re Foreign Accounts and Cap i tal Accoun ts .2 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for c e r t a in inv e s tm en t s, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be c red i ted w i th t rans fe rs f r om o th er Foreign Accoun ts, f rom Cap i tal Accoun ts, and f r om Special Accoun ts Und er Law No. 43, w i th l i re f r om au tho r ized c u r r e nt and c ap i t al p aym en t s, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of conver t ib le currencies." They may be deb i ted for purchases of any of these cu r renc ies in the o r d i n a ry ma rke t, for t r a n s f e rs to any o ther Foreign A c coun t, C ap i t al Accoun t, or Special Account U n d er Law No. 43, for p aym en ts to re s iden ts of I t a ly for cu r r ent and c ap i t al t ran sac t ion s, for pay- m en ts due to res iden ts on account of t h e ir d i s inv e s t- m e n ts abroad, and for d raw ings in cash by the ho lder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be cred i ted w i th t r a n s f e rs f r om Foreign Accoun ts, f rom Special Accoun ts U n d er Law No. 43, and f rom other Capital Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom the l i q u i d a t i on of fo r e ign i n v e s tm e n ts * I t a l i a ns l i v i ng or w o r k i ng a b r o ad a re p e rm i t t ed to m a i n t a in w i th I t a l i an b a n ks E m i g r a n t s' Fo re ign C u r r e n cy A c c o u n ts d e n om i n a t ed in conto valutario c u r r e n c i e s. They may be c r e d i t ed w i th r em i t t a n c es ( i n- c l u d i ng b a n k n o t e s) e f f e c t ed d i r e ct to t he b a nk f r om ab road ( up to 80 per c ent of the ho lde r 's wage or sa la ry e a r n i n gs if c r e d i ts exceed L it 150,000 a m o n t h) and w i th i n t e r e st on the ba lances; t h ey may be d e b i t ed f r e e ly f or conve r s ion i n to l i r e, f or w i t h d r a w a ls in f o r e i gn b a n k n o t es (up to L it 100,000, for r e t u rn t r ips a b r o a d ), and for t r an s- f e rs ab ro ad ( ex c ept for a c coun ts he ld by "border-area w o r k e r s " ). These a c coun ts may not be he ld by I t a l i an r e p r e s e n t a t i v es ab road or by I t a l i an s t a ff em p l o y ed by i n t e r n a t i o n al o r g a n i z a t i o n s. :>> The b a n k s' power to c r ed it f o r e i gn b a n k n o t es and c r e d it i n s t r u- men ts expressed in f o r e i gn cu r rency w i t h o ut pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i on is l i m i t ed to L it 1 m i l l i on in a c a l end ar y e ar for b a n k n o t es and c r e d it i n s t r u m e n ts n ot r em i t t ed to t he b a n ks d i r e ct f r om ab ro ad. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY in I ta ly not made under the provisions of Law No. 2 11 of Ma rch 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see b e low ). Capital Accounts may be debited for t rans- fers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of inves tmen ts not made under Law No. 43, i n c l u d i ng purchases of personal property or real estate in I ta ly. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of Febru- ary 7, 7956 are accoun ts in the names of non re s iden ts who have inves ted in I ta ly conve r t ib le currenc ies or ex t e rn a l ly conver t ib le Eu ropean currenc ies in accordance w i th the above-men t ioned law. These accounts may be cred i ted w i th the c o u n t e r v a l ue of c o n v e r t i b le cu r renc ies sold in I t a ly, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom Foreign Accoun ts, or f rom other Special Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of inv e s tm en ts that have been made in accordance w t ih Law No. 43. They may be deb i ted for purchases of the same cu r rency that was o r i g i n a l ly sold and for inv e s tm en ts in I t a ly, and ba lances on them may be t ran s fe r red to Foreign Accoun ts, Cap i tal Accoun t s, or any other Special Account U n d er Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts are governed by a M i n i s t e r i al Decree of May 6, 1976. The impo rt regu la t ions v a ry w i th the c o u n t ry of o r ig in. Coun t r ies a re grouped in th ree m a j or areas: Zone A, wh ich is subd iv ided in to subzones A /1 (EEC coun tr ies, Guade loupe, French G u i a n a, M a r t i- n i q u e, a nd R e u n i o n ), A /2 (overseas coun t r i es a nd t e r r i- to r ie s, EFTA coun t r ie s, and other coun t r i es associated w i th the EEC), and A /3 ( t h i rd c o u n t r i e s ); Zone B (CMEA coun t r i e s, A l b a n i a, People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, No r th Korea, and No r th Viet N a m ); and Zone C ( J a p a n ). The impo rt con t rol procedures d i s t ingu i sh between goods th at may be f r e e ly impo r t ed w i t h o ut q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion and goods th at r equ i re a spec ial m i n i s t e r i al l icense. Impo rt l i b e r a l i z a t i on is v i r t u a l ly comp le te for subzones A /1 and A / 2, wh i le ve ry f ew q u a n t i t a t i ve re s t r ic t ions r em a in for subzone A / 3. M a ny types of goods f r om Zones B and C are h e av i ly re s t r ic ted. A ll impo r ts of Rhode s ian o r ig in are p roh ib i ted. For imports f rom countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugos lav ia, the c o u n t ry of o r ig in must also be the coun- try of sh ipmen t. Impo r ts f r om non -EEC coun t r i es of most p roduc ts covered by the Common A g r i c u l t u r al Po l icy of the EEC are sub ject to v a r i ab le impo rt levies t h at h ave replaced a ll prev ious ba r r ie rs to impo r ts; common EEC regu la t ions are also app l ied to impo r ts f r om non-EEC coun tr ies of most other a g r i c u l t u r al and l ives tock products. For impo r ts not exceed ing Lit 1 m i l l i on in va lue, no exchange control fo rm is required; for imports f r om Lit 1 m i l l i on to Lit 2 m i l l i on in va lue, a fo rm comp le ted by the impo r ter is requ ired; for impo r ts over Lit 2 m i l- l ion in va lue, an import document completed by an authorized bank is requ i red. The impo r t er must choose an authorized bank as his bank of dom i c i l e, th rough 254 wh ich he must carry out all paymen ts operations related to his impo rt t ransac t ions if se t t lement takes place more than 360 days a f ter impo r ta t ion. Advance payments for impo r ts requ i re special app roval when they are to take place more th an 60 days before impo r ta t ion. Advance paymen ts in excess of Lit 2 m i l l ion must be made w i th fo re ign cu r rency borrowed f rom authorized banks. For all au thor ized impo r ts, the au tho r ized banks pro- vide exchange or perm it payment in I ta l ian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropr ia te payment te rms are observed (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). In t e rn a t ion al postal money orders may be used for impo rt paymen ts, sub ject in the case of paymen ts to Sw i tzer land to a l im it of Lit 30,000 for each rem i t ter and fo r e ign bene f ic ia ry. Impo rt paymen ts, other than those for wheat and d a i ly newspapers, are subject to a 40 per cent deposit r equ i r em ent and a 3l/2 per cent tax. Payments for Invisibles In p r inc ip le, paymen ts abroad for inv i s ib les requ ire licenses issued by the exchange con trol authorities. U n d er general au tho r iza t ion, however, the authorized b anks may sell fo re ign exchange f r e e ly, provided that the necessary documen ts are subm i t ted, except for tour- ist t r a v el and travel for business, s tudy, or hea l th rea- sons; th e ir a u t h o r i ty to sell exchange for f am i ly remit- tances is l im i t ed to Lit 35,000 a t r a n s f e r. Exchange is g ran ted f ree ly for r em i t t an c es of ea rn ings or inves tmen ts. Res iden ts may use i n t e r n a t i o n al postal money orders for p aym en t s, sub ject in the case of paymen ts to Sw i tzer land to a l im it of L it 30,000 for each r em i t t er and fo re ign bene f ic ia ry. Ce r ta in t ran sac t ions ( b ut not the re la ted p aym en t s) in respect of services are sub ject to app roval by the M in is- try of Foreign Trade or the M i n i s t ry of In d u s t ry. These t r an s a c t ions can be d iv ided in to two g roups: (1) con- t rac ts wh ich requ i re a pe rm it if they invo lve res iden ts of specified c o u n t r i e s4 and (2) con t rac ts wh ich requ i re a p e rm it regard less of the n a t i o n a l i ty of the non re s iden ts invo lved. The f i rst g roup inc ludes t ran sac t ions g iv ing r ise to expend i tu res for c h a r t e r i ng ships ( ex c lud ing cha r te rs for a s ing le t r i p ); repa i rs to sh ips w h i ch a re not u rgent and not necessary for s a f e ty of ope ra t ion; news agenc ies and newspaper co r responden ts ( f or am o u n ts exceed ing L it 5 m i l l i on a mon th for the same p a y e e ); purchases of p u b l i c a t i on r igh ts, i n f o rm a t i on agencies, etc. ( f or am o u n ts exceed ing L it 5 m i l l i on for each con- t r a c t ); copy r igh ts ( f or am o u n ts exceed ing L it 5 m i l l ion a year for each c o n t r a c t ); services of p ro fe s s ional work- e rs and comp any m an ag e rs ( f or amoun ts exceed ing L it 5 m i l l i o n ); and services of en te r ta ine rs and a th le tes ( f or am o u n ts exceed ing L it 5 m i l l i o n ). The second g roup inc ludes t r an s a c t ions g iv ing rise to expend i tu res for p roduc t ion abroad of f i lms, u t i l i z a t i on of f i lms, scripts, syn ch ron i z a t ion, etc .; co l labo ra t ion in c inema tog- 4 A l b a n i a. B h u t a n. B u l g a r i a, C ambod i a. Peop le's R ep ub l ic of Ch ina ( i n c l u d i ng M o n g o l i a ), Cuba, Czecho s lovak ia, G e r m an D em o c r a t ic R e- p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, N o r th Ko r e a. P o l a n d, R om a n i a. U .S .S .R .. V i et N am, a nd ( o n ly f or c h a r t e r i ng s h i p s) Y u g o s l a v i a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution raphy; insu rance of ships and a i r c r a ft aga inst risks of operation;5 and other t ransac t ions not permitted by general au tho r iza t ion (when the am o u n ts invo lved exceed Lit 1 m i l l ion ). Residents t rave l ing to fo re ign coun t r ies may ob ta in from the b anks exchange equ iv a l ent to Lit 500,000 a person a year for tou r ism, bus iness, med ical t r e a tm en t, and educa t ion ( the correspond ing amount for g roup travel also is Lit 500,000); the UIC gran ts foreign exchange above these a l lowances (except for t o u r i sm ), provided that it is satisfied that th is is ju s t i f i ed in the light of the d u r a t i on and purpose of the tr ip. The amount that may be t a k en out in the f o rm of fo re ign currency or travelers checks is Lit 65,000, wh i le up to Lit 435,000 may be t ak en out in letters of credit, for- eign payment orders, or n o n t r a n s f e r a b le checks d rawn on fore ign banks. The amount of Lit 65,000 may be increased to Lit 100,000, however, to the ex tent t h at the traveler r e f r a ins f rom t a k i ng out domes t ic bankno tes (the l im it is L it 35,000). To the ex t ent that he r e f r a i ns from ob ta in ing an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in add i t ion a p ropo r t iona te amount in I ta l ian bankno tes, up to L it 35,000.° Non- resident travelers may take out any am o u nt in fo r e ign banknotes t h at they have p rev iou s ly declared upon entry, subject to a l im it of the equ iva lent of Lit 200,000 a person if an oral dec la ra t ion is made, as we ll as L it 35,000 in I t a l i an bankno te s. However, the export of I t a l i an b ankno t es in d e n om i n a t i o ns la rger t h an Lit 10,000 is proh ib i ted. Most paymen ts for inv i s ib les are subject to a 40 per cent deposit r e q u i r em e nt and a 31/2 per cent t a x; t ravel exchange up to the equ iva lent of Lit 100,000 a person is exempt f rom bo th the deposit and the tax. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any c o u n t ry of a few commod i t ies in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding L it 1 m i l l i on in v a lu e, no exchange control f o rm is requ i red; for expor ts f r om L it 1 m i l l i on to L it 2 m i l l i on in v a l u e, a fo rm comp le ted by the exporter is requ i red; for expor ts exceed ing L it 2 m i l l i on in value, an export document comp le ted by an au tho- rized b ank is r equ i r ed. The expo r ter mu st choose an au tho r ized bank as h is b ank of dom i c i l e, th rough which he mu st ca r ry out the p aym en ts ope ra t ions re la ted to h is export t r an s a c t ions if se t t lement takes p lace more t h an 360 days before expo r ta t ion or more t h an 120 days a f t er expo r ta t ion. Unless special approval is ob ta ined for d i f f e r ent terms of payment (see section on C ap i t a l, b e l ow ), 90 per cent of exchange receipts mu st be collected w i t h in 120 days of sh ipmen t, and these mu st be o f fe red for sale to an authorized bank w i t h in 7 days of rece ip t, wh i le 10 per n Such t r a n s a c t i o ns need a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t r y. 11 Persons l i v i ng in bo rder areas may not t a ke out mo re t h an L it 35,000 a day in f o r e i gn and dom e s t ic b a n k n o t es and co ins com- b ined, of w h i ch f o r e i gn no tes and co ins m u st not exceed the e q u i v a l e nt of Lit 15,000. ITALY cent must be collected w i th in 24 mon ths of sh ipmen t. Proceeds in U.S. do l lars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and ex te rna l ly convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipi- ents in O rd in a ry Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for 7 days, du r ing wh ich period such balances may be used for permitted t ransac t ions or be sold to au thor ized banks; the banks are a l lowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them free ly w i th the UIC or among themselves.7 A f t er expiration of the re ten t ion period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange rate quoted d u r i ng the re ten t ion period (these rates are de te rm ined da i ly on the basis of the average closing rates in M i l an and R om e ). Export proceeds may also be received by in te rna t ional postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each paymen t, and in certain c ircums tances, in fore ign bankno tes that are accepted in the coun t ry of issue for credit to bank accounts, ba lances in wh i ch are conve r t ib le at o f f ic ial market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f r om cu r rent inv i s ib l es are subject to the same co l lec t ion, re ten t ion, and su r render requ iremen ts as rece ip ts f rom exports. Sh ipp ing and i n s u r a n ce com- pan ies and travel and f o rw a r d i ng agencies may keep Opera t ing Accoun ts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, C a n a d i an do l la rs, Japanese yen, and ex te rna l ly con- ve r t ib le Eu ropean cu r renc ies; u n u t i l i z ed balances must be su r r end e r ed per iod ica l ly. Residents may not re ta in any fo re ign bankno tes l e ft over f rom tr ips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may b r i ng in any am o u nt in fo re ign bankno tes and L it 35,000 in I t a l i an bankno te s, in d e n om i n a t i o ns not larger than Lit 10,000. Capital Inw a rd and ou twa rd mov em en ts of non re s ident cap i tal are free. However, loans of any k ind f rom nonresidents to res iden ts and f r om res iden ts to non re s iden ts requ i re specific au tho r i z a t ion f rom the M i n i s t ry of the Treasury or the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, w i th regard to OECD coun t r ie s, long - te rm loans (o ther than loans f rom f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions to nonresidents) for the purpose of es tab l ish ing or m a i n t a i n i ng la s t ing econom ic r e l a t ions and loans to re la t ives up to the th i rd degree of r e l a t i o n s h i p, and, w i th regard to EEC coun- tr ies, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding L it 250 m i l l i o n) and med ium - te rm (up to f ive years and not exceed ing Lit 250 m i l l i o n) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected w i th commercial operations or the p e r fo rm an ce of se rv ices ); for none of these is any k ind of au tho r i z a t ion requ i red. Repayment of such loans may be made f ree ly. 7 Fo re ign c u r r e n cy may be r e t a i n ed in O r d i n a ry Foreign Cu r r en cy A c coun ts u n t il the seven th day a f t er the date on wh ich the ind iv idu al e x c h a n ge r e c e i pt con c e rn ed was c red i ted to the accoun t. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY A deposit r equ i r em ent is app l icab le to ou twa rd t r an s- fers of resident-owned capital for direct inves tmen ts, portfolio inves tmen ts, f i n a n c i al loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The t rans fe ror must lodge a l i ra deposit e q u i v a l e nt to 50 per cent of the amount t r an s f e r r ed (25 per cent for inve s tment f u nd securities, b ut m u t u al f u n ds inv e s t ing e n t i r e ly in I t a l i an securities are ex emp t) in a non in te re s t -bea r ing account w i th the bank e f f e c t ing the t r a n s f e r. In a d d i t i o n, when fo re ign inve s tmen ts a re t ran s fe r red be tween res iden ts aga inst l i re, the t r an s f e r ee is sub ject to the deposit requ i remen t, regard less of the da te wh en the inv e s tm ent was made. The deposits are released o n ly wh en, and to the ex tent t h a t, d i s inv e s tm ent ope ra t ions occu r, and the ir release requ i res the pr ior approval of the local Bank of I t a ly office. Pu rchases by re s iden ts of ce r ta in bonds issued by specified EEC i n s t i t u t i o ns are exemp t. Ou twa rd d irect inv e s tm ent t ran sac t ions have f r om t ime to t ime been g iven an ad hoc exemp t ion. Most ou twa rd t r an s f e rs of cap i tal are sub ject to a tax of 3V2 per cen t. Foreign inve s tment in I t a ly is, in p r in c ip l e, governed by Law No. 43 of Feb rua ry 7, 1956 and subsequent im p l em e n t i ng regu la t ions. Foreign inv e s tm en ts of any k i nd in I ta ly, i n c l u d i ng both d irect and po r t fo l io inves t- m ent and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct inve s tment in OECD coun tr ies by phys ical or ju r id i c al persons (o ther th an pa r t ic ipa t ion by a f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i on that has i ts m a in office in I ta ly in a fo re ign comp any not h a v i ng the same corporate pu rpo s e) is pe rm i t ted in any fo rm and w i thout any l im i t .8 Direct inves tment in o ther coun t r ies may be made on ly ( u n d er the supervision of the U IC) by ju r id i c al persons in firms that are in the same l i ne of bus iness as that of the I t a l i an firm m a k i ng the inve s tmen t; other types of direct invest- ment in such countries requ i re special au tho r i z a t ion f r om the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these inves tmen ts also covers the r e inv e s tm ent of ea rn ings and the use for th is purpose of the l iqu id a- tion proceeds of previous inve s tmen ts ( a f t er c r ed i t ing the proceeds of the d i s i n v e s tm e nt to bank accoun ts s im i lar to those established for proceeds f r om exports and inv is ib les; see section on Proceeds f rom Inv is ib les, above ). Res iden ts of I ta ly are f ree to buy and se l l, th rough the Bank of I ta ly or the au thor ized banks, any fo re ign securities issued or payab le abroad and quoted on fo r- eign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves aga inst p a ym e nt in l ire. Such foreign secu r i t ies, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited w i th an I t a l i an bank or w i th a bank abroad for account of an I ta l ian b ank. The purchase by residents of shares of fo re ign financial in s t i tu t ions of any k i nd ( i n c l u d i ng m u t u al f u n d s ), as well as conver- s F i n a n c i al i n v e s tm e n t, i.e., i n v e s tm e nt not in t end ed to es tab l ish per- m a n e nt r e l a t i o n s, is not cons idered d i rect i n v e s tm e n t. The regu la t ions g o v e r n i ng d i r e ct i n v e s tm e nt a re also not app l icab le to pa r t ic ipa t ions in "ho ld ing s" ab road of any k i n d. 256 t ib le bonds issued by such i n s t i t u t i o n s, requ ires prior app roval by the UIC. In prac t ice, however, a res ident is ab le to pu rchase f r e e ly shares of fo re ign f u n ds that have received au tho r iza t ion f rom the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade to sell t h e ir shares in I t a l y, since that au tho r iza- t ion is in fact v a l id also for the i n d i v i d u al res ident subsc r ibe r. Such a u t h o r i z a t i on is g iven on ly to f u n ds mee t ing cer ta in r e q u i r em e n t s, i n c l u d i ng t h at of inv e s t ing at least 50 per cent of t h e ir po r t fo l io in I t a l i an secur i- ties and that of se t t ing up a b r an ch off ice in I t a ly. Resi- den ts do not r equ i re a u t h o r i z a t i on to pu rcha se real es ta te in EEC coun t r ies. A ll issues of secu r i t ies by n o n r e s i d e n ts on the I t a l i an cap i tal m a rk et requ i re the p r ior app roval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the ru les gov e rn ing the issue in I ta ly of domes t ic secu r i t ies. These rules i n c l u de the p r ior app roval of the B ank of I t a ly, a n d, for issues beyond L it 500 m i l l i o n, th at of the M i n i s t ry of the Treasury, the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t r y, and the In t e r- m i n i s t e r i al C red it Comm i t t e e. Issues a re n o rm a l ly res t r ic ted to i n t e r n a t i o n al i n s t i t u t i o n s. T rans fe rs in conn e c t ion w i th dona t ion s, inh e r i t an c e s, and dowr ies may be m a de f r e e ly. The t r a n s f er of prop- e r ty of res iden ts leav ing I t a ly p e rm a n e n t ly is allowed in two s tages: up to the e q u i v a l e nt of Lit 5 m i l l i on a person upon presentation of specified documen ts to an autho- rized b ank at the t ime of leav ing I t a ly, and the r em a i n d er sub ject to e x am i n a t i on of the d o c um e n ts by the UIC, when residence has been es tab l ished ab road. Banks1 a u t h o r i ty to sell fo re ign exchange for cash g i f ts is l im i t ed to Lit 35,000 a rem i t tance. Special r egu l a t ions a p p ly to comme rc ial c red i ts and credits related to the pe r fo rmance of services. Advance paymen ts for impo r ts may be made f r e e ly if impo r t a t ion is to take place w i th in 60 days provided that the payment is made w i th fo re ign cu r rency borrowed f r om an au tho- rized b a n k; in all other cases, the prior approval of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade is requ i red. When prepay- men ts for impo r ts exceed Lit 10 m i l l i o n, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is requ i red. Deferred paymen ts for impor ts are perm i t ted f ree ly if se t t lement is to take place, to the ex tent of at least 90 per cen t, w i t h in 360 days a f t er impo r t a t ion, and the ba lance w i th in 24 months a f t er impo r t a t ion; such p aym en ts requ i re the prior app roval of the UIC if the se t t lement is to take place between 12 mon ths and 24 mon ths a f t er impo r ta t ion. In all other cases, the p r ior app roval of the M in i s t ry of Fore ign Trade is requ i red; whe re, acco rd ing to the contract, se t t lement is to take place more than 360 days a f t er the date of impo r ta t ion, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance paymen ts for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i t h in 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts requ ire the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred paymen ts for exports are permitted if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 per cent w i t h in 120 days a f t er expo r t a t ion, and the ba lance w i t h in 24 mon ths a f t er expo r ta t ion. For settle- ment be tween 120 and 360 days a f t er e x p o r t a t i o n, the approval of the UIC is requ i red; in all o ther cases such receipts r e q u i re the p r ior app rov al of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade. V i r t u a l ly i d e n t i c al r e g u l a t i o ns a re in fo r ce for the per- m i t t ed c red it te rms for impo r ts and exports of services. In re la t ions w i th EEC coun t r ies, the rec iprocal g ran t- ing of c red i ts for c omm e r c i al t r a n s a c t i o ns or the per- fo rmance of services, w i th a m a t u r i ty longer t h an the t ime l im i ts t h at b a n ks a re a u t h o r i z ed to approve and up to f ive years, may be effected a f t er e x am i n a t i on of the d o c um e n ts by the UIC. This app l i es also in r e l a t i o ns w i th A u s t r i a, F i n l a n d, Norway, Sweden, and Sw i tze r land. Loans and credits ( the la t ter on ly beyond a ce r ta in d u r a t i o n, g en e r a l ly 180-360 d a y s) not connec ted w i th commerc ial t ran sac t ions or w i th the pe r fo rmance of services r equ i re the app rov al of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade and are severely res tr ic ted. However, financial loans may be g r an t ed to or by re s iden ts of EEC coun- t r i es as ind i c a t ed above. The export of I t a l i an and fo re ign secur i t ies is per- m i t ted on ly wh en they a re owned by n o n r e s i d e n ts and have been purchased aga inst U.S. do l lars, C an ad i an do l- lars, J ap an e se y en, or e x t e r n a l ly conv e r t ib le Eu ropean cu r renc ies, or aga in st f u n ds on a Foreign Account or a Cap i tal A c coun t. The net ex t e rn al pos i t ion of the b anks is sub ject to con trol by the UIC. This con t rol encompasses ( 1) the spot pos i t ion v is-a-v is non res iden ts in fo re ign currenc ies and l i re toge the r; and (2) the ove ra ll p o s i t i o n, spot and forward comb ined, in a ll foreign currenc ies; a ba lanced fore ign cu r r en cy pos i t ion on a d a i ly bas is is r equ i r ed separately in (a) U.S. do l lars, (b) EEC currenc ies, and (c) all o ther conto vahitario cu r renc ies comb ined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ce i l ing on the ir n et fo re ign l i a b i l i ty pos i t ion but a re p roh ib i ted f r om m a i n t a i n i ng a net foreign asset pos i t ion; in add i t ion, o u t s t a n d i ng fo rwa rd t r a n s a c t i o ns aga in st l i re a re subject to a ce i l ing set i n d i v i d u a l ly for each bank. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold and negotiate gold in any form in I ta ly, w i th the excep t ion of u n r e f i n ed gold imported under m in i s te r ial license for indu s t r i al pu r- poses. The mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies may f r e e ly acqu i re un re f ined gold abroad. Agent banks may acqu i re un re- fined gold abroad upon subm i s s ion of licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade to I ta l ian firms for indus- tr ial use. Exports of w rought and s em im a n u f a c t u r ed gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licensing. Impor ts of un r e f in ed gold are in p r inc ip le subject to va lue -added tax, but at the end of 1976 the rate of tax was zero per cent. Impo r ts of gold coins for n um i sm a t ic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. ITALY Changes during 1976 In add i t ion to the changes listed below, ce r ta in changes in quan t i ta t ive import regulations were made in acco rdance w i th EEC decisions, directives, and regula- t ions; most of these related to textiles or to beef and vea l. January 1. The value-added tax applicable to the impo rt of u n r e f i n ed gold was reduced f r om 12 per cent to zero. January 1. The r e f i n a n c i ng f a c i l i t i es of the UIC for bank s' short-term export credits were extended un t il A p r il 30. The m a x im um d u r a t i on of such financing was increased f rom 90 days to 120 days f rom the date of export. All other cond i t ions rema ined unchanged. Und er these a r r ang em en t s, the U IC a u t om a t i c a l ly ref i- nanced at IVi per cent in terest 50 per cent of the export c red i ts f inanced by b a n k s. January 2. The UIC eased the regu la t ions on the t im- ing of impo rt and export p aym en ts that was pe rm i t ted w i thout special approva l. The s t and a rd period for pre- payment of impor ts was increased f rom 30 to 60 days be fo re im p o r t a t i o n; the period w i t h in wh i ch 90 per c ent of export proceeds must be collected was increased f rom 90 to 120 days a f t er sh ipment (M i n i s t e r i al Decree of December 27, 1975 and C i rcu lar No. A322 of Decem- ber 23, 1975 ). January 2. The v a l ue of impo rt t r a n s a c t i o ns exempt f rom the bank guaran tee or collateral security requ ired by A r t ic le 1 of Law No. 1126 of Ju ly 20, 1952 (as am end ed) was increased to Lit 10 m i l l ion. As a resu l t, the am o u nt of p repaymen ts for impo r ts beyond wh ich an advance deposit of 5 per cent was required was inc reased f rom Lit 5 m i l l i on to Lit 10 m i l l i on (C i rcu- lar No. A323 of December 23, 1975 ). January 21. Off ic ial fore ign exchange quo ta t ions were su spended. They were resumed on Ma rch 1. D u r i ng the in te rva l, au thor ized banks con t inued to deal in foreign exchange, both spot and fo rwa rd. February 4. A M in i s te r ial Decree provided for the e s t ab l i shm ent of Em ig r an t s' Fore ign Cu r rency Accoun ts wh ich could be held w i th au thor ized banks by I t a l i ans wo rk ing abroad. Im p l em e n t i ng regu la t ions were issued by the UIC on March 26 (C i r cu l ar No. A 3 2 8 ). Such accoun ts had to be denom ina ted in conto vahitario cur- rencies. They cou ld be credited w i th rem i t tances ( in c lud- ing b ankno t e s) effected d irect to the bank f rom abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or sa lary ea rn- ings if credits were to exceed Lit 150,000 a m o n t h) and w i th in terest in fo re ign cu r r en cy on the ba lance s; they could be debited freely for conversion in to l ire, for w i t h d r aw a ls in fo re ign bankno tes (up to L it 100,000, for r e tu rn t r ips ab ro ad ), and for transfers abroad (except for accoun ts held by "border-area wo rke rs" ). The use of the accounts to meet foreign currency ob l iga t ions was sub ject to a u t h o r i z a t i o n. The in te rest rates t h at b a n ks were required to apply were s l igh t ly over the Euro- cu r rency 90-day rates for the cu r rency concerned, as no t i f ied per iod ica l ly by the UIC. These accounts could 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY not be held by I t a l i an representatives abroad or by I ta l ian staff employed by international organizations. February 5. The period du r ing which fore ign cur- rency receipts could be retained in Ordinary Foreign Cu r rency Accounts was reduced f rom 45 days to 15 days af ter the date on which the foreign currency was credited to the accoun t. The m a x im um period for hold- ing foreign currency balances in Suspense Accounts (Conti di Attesa Ordinari) was reduced f rom 90 to 30 days, and the m a x im um period for the use of such bal- ances was reduced to 7 days a f t er receipt. The perm is- sion to hold ce r ta in excess fore ign cu r rency receipts in ope ra t ing accoun ts (Conti Autorizzati) u n t il the end of the year was revoked (M in is te r ial Decree of Feb rua ry 4 and C i rcu lar No. A324 of February 5). February 25. The superv is ion over impor ts and domestic purchases of un re f ined gold for i n d u s t r i al pur- poses was t igh tened. C i rcu lar No. A281 and Commun i- ca t ion No. 376 were revoked (C i r cu l ar No. A 3 2 5 ). February 25. The UIC in fo rmed au thor ized banks th at they were p roh ib i ted, w i th imm e d i a te effec t, f r om g r an t ing f i n a n c i ng for sho r t - te rm export credits by u s i ng l i re deposited w i th Bank of I ta ly branches in connec t ion w i th the ir dollar swaps w i th the UIC (C omm u n i c a t i on D.C. No. 4 2 2 ). February 26. The power of au thor ized banks to credit Foreign Accoun ts, w i thout pr ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, w i th fore ign bankno tes and c red it i n s t r um e n ts expressed in fo re ign cu r rency was l im i t ed to L it 1 m i l l ion in a c a l end ar year for b ankno t es and cred it i n s t r um e n ts not rem i t ted to the b a n ks d irect f r om abroad (Commun i c a- t ion D.C. No. 4 2 4 ). February 28. The am o u nt of fo re ign exchange that res iden ts t rave l ing abroad cou ld expo rt in the fo rm of fo re ign cu r r en cy or travelers checks was reduced f rom the equ iv a l ent of Lit 500,000 to Lit 65,000 a person a yea r; up to Lit 435,000 could be t a k en out in le t ters of c red i t, fo re ign payment orders, or n o n t r a n s f e r a b le checks d rawn on fo re ign b ank s. The am o u nt of Lit 65,000 could be increased to Lit 100,000, however, to the ex tent t h at the t r av e l er r e f r a i n ed f r om t a k i ng out domes- t ic bankno tes ( the l im it for wh ich r em a in ed un ch ang ed at Lit 35,000) (C i rcu lar No. A 3 2 6 ). March 4. Decree No. 31 made i n f r i n g em e n ts of the exchange con trol r egu l a t ions sub ject to severe pena l t ie s. I l lega l ly he ld fo re ign assets had to be declared to the UIC and repa t r ia ted. The Decree was conve r ted i n to law, w i th am endm en t s, by Law No. 159 of Ap r il 30 (see June 7, be low ). March 15. I t a ly borrowed US$1 b i l l i on f rom the EEC. March 18. Res tr ic t ions were t igh tened on the r ight of authorized banks to unde r take parallel t r an s a c t ions on the spot and fo rwa rd fo re ign exchange ma rke t s. Their "spot aga inst fo rwa rd" ce i l ing was f rozen at the amount ac tua l ly used at the close of bus iness on May 17. The new ce i l ing wou ld be reduced by 10 per cent on March 31, and by v a r y i ng percentages ( r a n g i ng f rom 258 5 per cent to 15 per cen t) on April 15 (UIC Letters Nos. 6700 and 7500). March 18. Prepayments in excess of Lit 2 million for imports of goods and services were again required to be made w i th fore ign currency borrowed f rom autho- rized banks; the l im it for prepayments without special au thor iza t ion rema ined unchanged at 60 days before importation (Circular No. A327 ). April 12. The fo re ign settlements of the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno and three other public sector agencies hencefor th had to be effected through authorized banks (Commun ica t ion D.C. No. 426). This ru l ing was extended on May 13 to ano ther public agency (Com- mun ica t ion D.C. No. 430). April 21. The export and import of I ta l ian banknotes in denom ina t ions exceeding Lit 10,000 was prohibited (C i r cu l ar No. A329 ). May 6. For the period un t il August 3, all purchases of fo re ign exchange, spot or fo rwa rd, by residents and the c red i t ing of any k ind of nonres ident lire accounts, as well as the deb i t ing of resident-held foreign currency accoun ts, became subject to a 90-day non in teres t-bear ing l i ra deposit w i th the Bank of I ta ly equ iv a l ent to 50 per cent of the amount of the t ransac t ion. The principal exemp t ions were ( 1) foreign exchange allocations granted by the UIC for purposes of business, study, med ical t r e a tm en t, and f am i ly rem i t tance s; (2) I ta l ian inv e s tm en ts abroad a l ready subject to the 50 per cent deposit r e q u i r em e nt prescribed by M in i s te r ial Decree of December 22, 1975; ( 3) use of ope ra t ing accounts; (4) loan d i sbu r semen ts by I t a l i an med ium - te rm credit i n s t i t u t i o ns in accordance w i th in t e rgov e rnm en t al com- m i tm e n t s; (5) ope ra t ions u n d e r t a k en by au tho r ized b anks to m o d i fy the ir own ex te rnal position in foreign cu r rency and in l i re; (6) t r a n s f e rs made th rough the U IC; and (7) paymen ts for wheat impo r ts (M i n i s t e r i al Decree of May 6 and C i rcu lar No. A330 of May 6). May 6. The p e rm i t t ed re ten t ion period for fore ign cu r rency held in O r d i n a ry Fore ign Cu r rency Accoun ts was f u r t h er reduced f r om 15 days to 7 days a f ter the da te when the fo re ign cu r rency was cred i ted to the accoun ts (M i n i s t e r i al Decree of May 6 and C i rcu lar No. A332 of May 10). May 6. A new impo rt con trol system was in t roduced by M i n i s t e r i al Decree. Und er the new regu la t ion s, coun- t r ies of or ig in were grouped in th ree m a j or areas, Zones A, B, and C. The Decree revoked the previous con t ro ls based on the p rov is ions of the M i n i s t e r i al Decrees of June 16, 1970 (Tabella A Import) and Ju ly 10, 1973 (Tabella B Import), as well as the special p rov is ions issued on May 28, 1963 by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade ( l i st for J a p a n ). May 7. Expo r te rs invo ic ing in fo re ign cu r rency and g r a n t i ng export c red i ts for up to 120 days were required to ob t a in f rom au thor ized banks f i n a n c i ng in the same fo re ign cu r rency for a period equal to the period of the de fe r red payment and for an am o u nt of 30 per cent of the de fe r red paymen t. This f i n a n c i ng had to be repaid ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with fore ign exchange received f rom abroad. The m a in exemptions were for t ransac t ions of less t h an Lit 5 m i l- lion and for exports of f ru i ts, vegetables, and flowers. For export credit w i th a m a t u r i ty in excess of 120 days, the U IC prescribed f i n a n c i ng requ i remen ts on a case-by- case basis (M in i s t e r i al Decree of May 6 and C i rcu lar No. A331 of May 7). May 7. Authorized bank s' t ransac t ions in which they made foreign currency ava i lab le to fore ign banks aga inst lire for se t t lement the same day a n d / or the day a f t er nego t ia t ion (so-called "overnight" and "tomorrow next" t ransac t ions) were p roh ib i ted (U IC Letter No. 1 5 1 5 0 ). May 14. Spot exchange t ran sac t ions aga in st l i re w i th delayed de l ivery of between two and seven days hence- forth were considered fo rwa rd t ransac t ions ra ther than spot t ransac t ions. As such they became sub ject to the "spot against forward" ceilings applicable to individual banks (wh i ch had been reduced ea r l ier in 1976) (U IC Letter No. 10500 of May 5 ). May 19. It was announced that the s u r v e i l l a n ce over imports of paper and paper p roduc ts was b e ing ex tended u n t il December 31. June 7. The UIC specified the methods and proce- dures to be fo l lowed by holders of i l legal fo re ign assets in dec lar ing and r e p a t r i a t i ng these to comp ly w i th Law No. 159 of Ap r il 30. The dec la ra t ion r equ i r em ent would be cons idered f u l f i l l ed where the d irect repa t r ia- tion of cap i tal or deposit of secu r i t ies took place w i t h in three mon ths of the e n t ry i n to force of the law (C i r c u l ar No. A 3 3 5 ). June 15. The f o l l ow i ng a d d i t i o n al t r a n s a c t i o ns were exempted f rom the 50 per cent deposit r e q u i r em e nt of May 6: ( 1) purchases of bonds issued by the Eu ropean Inves tment Bank or the Eu ropean Coal and Steel Com- m u n i ty and a dm i t t ed for p l a c em ent w h o l ly or p a r t i a l ly in I ta ly; (2) r e p a ym e n ts o f, and in te rest p aym en ts on, loans f rom ab road; (3) p a ym e n ts to non re s iden ts of pensions, savings, social in su r an ce bene f i ts, and food allowances lega l ly due; (4) t r an s f e rs of salaries to I ta l ian agen ts ab road; ( 5) a l lo c a t ions to persons em ig ra t- ing, w i t h in the es tab l ished l im it of L it 5 m i l l i on per person in add i t ion to the tour ist allowance; (6) pay- men ts in to special Conti Autorizzati as pe rm i t ted by ind iv idu al a u t h o r i z a t i o n s; (7) d i sbu r semen t s, by the c red i t ing of Fo re ign Accoun ts, of loans g ran ted u n d er Law No. 131 of F e b r u a ry 28, 1967; (8) r em i t t an c es of savings f r om ea rned in come ( r em i t t a n c es by imm i g r a n t s, in c lud ing non re s ident wo rke rs t em p o r a r i ly in I t a l y ); (9) w e l f a re p a ym e n ts to em i g r a n ts and lo ans f r om the Istituto N a z i o n a le di Cred i to per il Lavoro I t a l i a no aU'Es tero; ( 1 0) p a ym e n ts by postal o rder and in t e r- na t ional money order up to the es tab l ished ce i l ing s; ( 1 1) paymen ts for impor ts of fo re ign d a i ly newspapers; ( 1 2) c red i ts to Fore ign Accoun ts held by s h i p p i ng and airline compan ies for the proceeds of t icket sales; ( 1 3) p aym en ts of c l a ims by i n s u r a n ce compan ies for civil l i a b i l i ty of res iden ts to non r e s id en t s, and t r a n s f e rs abroad p u r s u a nt to f inal cou rt j u d gm e n t s; ( 1 4) pay- ITALY ments for ships' stores and supplies; ( 1 5) imports of a r t i f ic ial k idneys and parts thereof and of blood der iva- tives; and ( 1 6) paymen ts of Lit 100,000 or less for any purpose, provided they did not cons t i tu te par t ial pay- m ent on a transac t ion invo lv ing a larger sum. It was also stated for c la r i f ica t ion that the f o l l ow i ng t ran sac t ions were not subject to the deposit requ i rement and that any deposits made s ince May 6, 1976 in respect of these t ransac t ions were to be released: ( 1) g iv ing of secur i ty or release of guarantees au thor ized by a general or specific perm iss ion; (2) fo re ign d is inves tmen t, income f rom foreign inve s tment in I ta ly, and expenses abroad for the recogn i t ion of fo re ign ownersh ip of assets and securities held in I ta ly; ( 3) con t r ibu t ions to in te r- na t ional o rgan iza t ions in which Italy participates; (4) paymen ts abroad arranged by Italcable in connec- tion with its operations; ( 5) credits to Autonomous Accoun ts in I ta l ian Lire for Yugoslavia opened w i th branches of the Bank of I ta ly in Gor iz ia and Trieste; (6) paymen ts made in I ta l ian l ire through the U IC for 30 per cent of all impor ts f r om Egypt; (7) comm iss ions due f r om au thor ized banks to their correspondents in connec t ion w i th the execution of paymen ts abroad; (8) t r a n s f e rs of consu lar fees; and (9) use of balances in O ther Suspense Accoun ts (Conti di Attesa Altri) (M i n i s t e r i al Decree of J u ne 12 and C i rcu lar No. A336 of J u ne 1 5 ). June 15. U n t il August 3, banks were not perm i t ted to d iscount in favor of non res iden ts commerc ial paper in l i re (p rom isso ry notes or accepted b i l l s) charged to res ident importers, un less the latter made the 50 per cent deposit at the t ime of d i scoun t ing (C i rcu lar No. A 3 3 6 ). July 2. Non res ident trave lers were allowed to re-export fo re ign means of payment equ iva lent to Lit 200,000 a person sub ject to oral dec la ra t ion; it was no longer necessary to f i ll out fo rm V2 upon en t ry when the am o u nt to be re-exported was not expected to exceed Lit 200,000 (C i rcu lar No. 337 ). July 12. Cer ta in exchange control regu la t ions were eased for res iden ts of Camp ione d ' l ta l ia, in view of the c ircu la t ion of Swiss cu r rency in the c omm u ne (C i rcu lar No. A 3 3 8 ). August 3. The 50 per cent deposit requ i rement of May 6 was ex tended u n t il November 3 (M i n i s t e r i al Decree of J u ly 21 and C i rcu lar No. A339 of Ju ly 28 ). August 10. The amnes ty under Law No. 159 for the r ep a t r i a t ion of i l l e g a l ly held fo re ign assets was extended to November 19 (Decree-Law No. 543 ). September 30. The deposit requ i rement of May 6 was ex tended for a f u r t h er six mon ths, but would be phased out over the per iod October 15, 1976-April 14, 1977 (see October 15, below) (M in is te r ial Decree of Sep tember 30, gazetted on October 13 ). October 4. Exporters invoicing in fo re ign exchange and g r a n t i ng credit for up to 120 days were required to ob ta in fo re ign exchange f inanc ing for an amount e q u i v a l e nt to 50 per cent of the export credit (prev ious ly 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 30 per cent) (M in is te r ial Decree of September 30 and C i rcu lar N o. A341 of October 5 ). October 4. An exchange tax of 10 per cent was imposed for two weeks on purchases of foreign exchange and on payments to foreign countries (Decree-Law N o. 675 of October 1 ). Various exemptions were speci­ fied in a M in is te r ial Decree of October 4. The tax was abolished on October 18. October 13. Au thor ized banks were prohibited un t il further notice from extending credit in lire as ma il credits or prepayment accounts to foreign banks or customers ( U IC Letter N o. 23500). October 15. The deposit requirement of M ay 6 was reduced from 50 per cent to 45 per cent. On Novem­ ber 30, it was further reduced to 40 per cent, on Janu­ ary 15, 1977 to 25 per cent, and on February 28, 1977 to 10 per cent. It was to be abolished on A p r il 15, 1977. October 15. The "spot against forward" ceilings on banks' forward operations in foreign exchange against lire were reduced by 50 per cent (U IC Letter N o. 23750). October 15. The ceilings on foreign currency balances in operating accounts held in Italy or abroad were reduced by 50 per cent ( U IC Letter N o. 23800). October 16. The period during which foreign exchange purchased with lire by importers could be held in Foreign Currency Accounts was reduced from seven to two days for accounts established after October 15 ( U IC Letter N o. 23850). October 18. A M in is ter ial Decree modified the per­ mitted retention period for funds in Foreign Currency Accounts. This validity now ran un t il the second day following the date of crediting where the foreign cur­ rency was purchased w i th lire, spot or forward, to settle transactions authorized either generally or spe­ cifically; in all other cases the validity period ran un t il the seventh day following the date of crediting (also where the funds credited were obtained by converting lire from a Foreign A c c o u n t ). October 25. A 7 per cent exchange tax was imposed for a period not to extend beyond February 18, 1977 on purchases of foreign exchange, spot or forward, and on payments in lire credited to nonresident accounts, as well as payments to the debit of resident-held foreign currency accounts. There were a number of exemptions. These were essentially the same ones listed above under M ay 6 and June 15, but the L it 100,000 exemption was now restricted to travel exchange (Decree-Law N o. 711 of October 2 3 ). Subsequently, certain o il companies and other major importers were permitted to use foreign currency accounts that were exempt from the exchange tax and from the M ay 6 deposit requirement. November 11. It was announced that the Govern­ ment would import 4,000 tons of frozen beef from E EC stockpiles. November 17. The Bank of Italy announced that with effect from November 29 foreign banks with open debit positions on l ira accounts with authorized banks would be charged the equivalent of any downward daily exchange rate fluctuation of the l i ra. November 19. Venezuela announced that it would place certain deposits w i th the Bank of Italy. November 19. The amnesty for the repatriation of illegally held foreign assets was extended until Decem­ ber 3. December 1. The amount up to which export pro­ ceeds may be received by international postal money order was increased from L it 100,000 to L it 600,000. December 23. The Counc il of Ministers approved a b i ll to reform the export credit system. Among its fea­ tures was the creation of a L it 5,000 b i l l ion revolving fund for short-term export credit insurance. December 27. The 7 per cent exchange tax of Octo­ ber 25 was reduced to 3Vi per cent. It was announced that the tax would be further reduced by Vi of a per­ centage point each week, beginning on January 3, 1977, to 0.50 per cent on February 7, 1977, until it was eliminated on February 18, 1977. December. Imports from Romania of suits and trou­ sers of synthetic fibers, previously liberalized, were restricted by quotas. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par va lue for the cu r r en cy of Ivo ry Coast has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cu r rency is the CFA Franc ,1 wh ich is o f f i c i a l ly m a i n t a i n ed at the ra te of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c. Exchange t ransac- tions in French f r a n c s, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency, between the Banque Cen tra le des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and comme rc ial banks take place on the basis of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of 2.50 per m i ll for t r a n s f e rs to coun t r ies outside the West A f r i c an M o n e t a ry U n i o n, wh i le no comm iss ion is charged on t r a n s f e rs w i t h in the U n i on or f rom coun t r ies ou ts ide the U n i o n. Exchange ra tes for fore ign cu r renc ies are based on the f ixed ra te for the French f r a nc and the Par is exchange m a r k et ra te for the currency concerned, and in c lude a comm i s s ion. B anks levy a commission on t rans fe rs to all coun tr ies ou ts ide the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry U n i o n, part of w h i ch m u st be surrendered to the T reasu ry. With the exception of those r e l a t ing to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange con t rol measu res do not app ly in finan- cial re la t ions w i th ( 1) F rance ( a nd i ts Overseas Depa r t- ments and Terr i tor ies, except the French T e r r i to ry of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll o ther countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Ope ra t ions Account (B e n i n, Came roon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Repub- lic of the Congo, Gabon, Ma l i, N ige r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all p aym en ts to these coun- tries may be made f r e e l y. All other coun tr ies, except Ivory Coast i t s e l f, are considered fo re ign coun t r ies, and in p r inc ip le f inanc ial re la t ions on ly w i th fo r e ign coun- tries are subject to exchange con tro l. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in i s te red by the D irec tora te of External F inance and Cred it in the M in i s t ry of Econ- omy and F inance, wh ich also supervises bo r row ing abroad, the issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, fo re ign inw a rd direct investment, and a ll ou twa rd inves tment in fo re ign coun- tries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any i n f o r- mation necessary to comp i le the ba lance of paymen ts statistics, either direct or th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of banks, other financial in s t i tu t ion s, the Postal A dm i n i s t r a- tion, and no tar ies public. All exchange t ransac t ions relating to fore ign coun t r ies must be e f fec ted th rough authorized banks or the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. Impo rt 1The CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque Cen t ra le des E t a ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common c u r r e n cy in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Ex te rnal Trade in the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Opera t ions Account coun t ry of the French F ranc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- men ts w i th F rance (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the other Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French f r an c s, or the cu r r en cy of any o ther Opera t ions Account coun t ry. Se t t lemen ts w i th The G amb i a, Ghana, L ibe r ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone n o rm a l ly are made th rough the West A f r i c an C lea r ing House. Settlements w i th a ll other coun t r ies a re u su a l ly made th rough co r respondent banks in France in any of the currenc ies of those coun tr ies or in F rench f r a n cs through Fore ign Accounts in Francs. A ll s e t t l em e n ts w i th Rhodes ia a re p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The r egu l a t ions p e r t a i n i ng to non re s ident accoun ts are re la ted to those app l ied in F rance. BCEAO bankno tes may be c red i ted to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been ma i led direct to the BCEAO agency in A b i d j an by au thor ized banks' fo r e ign corresponden ts. O the rw i se, the c r e d i t i ng to non re s ident accounts of such b a n k n o t es is p roh ib i ted. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f r om Por tugal (w i th the excep t ion of port w i n e s ), Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca a re proh ib i ted. Impo r ts f rom the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina and the U.S.S.R. are made on a ba r ter bas is. Cer ta in impo r ts are proh ib i ted (e.g., a specified type of co f fee -husk ing m a ch ine and wheat flour) or subject to impo rt license or p r ior au tho r iza t ion (e.g., pa in t s, matches, and deter- g e n t s ). Impo r ts of rice are related to domes t ic produc- tion in such a m ann er that imports are made comple- m e n t a ry to purchases of domes t ica l ly produced rice. All other im p o r ts may be made f r e e ly f r om any c o u n t r y, sub ject on ly to the subm iss ion of a dec la ra t ion of i n t e nt to impo r t. W i th m i n or exceptions, impor ts by sea or air, when va lued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to p r e sh ipm ent in spec t ion, in order to con t rol the ir price, q u a n t i t y, and qua l i ty. A ll impo rt t ransac t ions r e l a t ing to fore ign coun t r ies mu st be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000; t ransac t ions of lower va lue must be dom ic i led if a financial transac t ion is to be und e r t ak en before customs clearance. The impo rt licenses or impo rt a t tes ta t ions entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not ea r l ier than one 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST mon th before shipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Paymen ts for invisibles to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun tr ies are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require au thor iza- t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonres iden ts in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted f ree ly when the basic t ransac t ion has been approved. Any resident may f ree ly make f am i ly remit- tances abroad, through an au thor ized b ank, up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 40,000 a mon th; amoun ts in excess of CFAF 40,000 per rem i t ter per mon th requ i re the approval of the Directorate of Ex ternal F inance and Credit. However, any res ident may f r e e ly and at any t ime make paymen ts abroad up to the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 50,000 a t r a n s f er w i t h o ut s u bm i t t i ng any docu- m en t a t ion. Res iden ts t r av e l ing to coun t r ies o ther t h an France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun tr ies of the French Franc Area may ob t a in an exchange a l loca t ion for tou r i sm of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a y e ar (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ld ren under t e n ); any fo re ign exchange r em a in ing in excess of CFAF 5,000 a f t er re tu rn to Ivory Coast must be su r rende red. The t ran s fer of the full basic salary of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Ivory Coast is pe rm i t ted upon presen ta t ion of the app rop r ia te pay voucher, provided that the t r a n s f er takes place w i t h in three mon ths of the pay period. Resident and non res ident trave lers going to fo re ign coun t r ies may take out BCEAO bankno tes up to CFAF 25,000. Travel- ers to other French Franc Area coun t r ies may t a ke out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if going to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mone- t a ry U n i o n, the amount taken out must be dec lared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonres ident trave lers going to fo re ign coun t r ies may f ree ly take out fo re ign bankno tes and coins up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any trave lers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to d o c um e n t a t i o n, they may also take out any am o u nt of t rave le rs checks, etc., in fore ign cu r rency established in th e ir name a f t er conversion of fo re ign cu r rency in to CFA f r an cs or drawn aga inst a Foreign Account in Francs or a fo re ign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonres iden ts who have made a currency dec lara t ion upon e n t ry or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out higher amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Most exports are free of license and requ i re a declaration only. Exports of processed and unprocessed 262 ag r icu l tu ral commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. The due date for payments in respect of exports to fo re ign countries must not be later than 180 days a f t er the arr ival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is invoiced in a cu r rency other than that of a coun try of the French Franc Area, surrendered on the exchange ma rke t, w i th in two months of the due date. All export transactions re la t ing to fore ign coun- tries mu st be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank when va lued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom t ransac t ions in invisibles w i th France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and other Operations Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be r e t a in ed. A ll amoun ts due f r om residents of other coun- tr ies in respect of services and all income earned in those coun t r ies f r om fo r e ign assets must be collected and sur- rendered w i t h in two mon ths of the due da te or the date of receipt. Resident and non res ident trave lers may b r ing in any am o u nt of b a n k n o t es and co ins issued by the BCEAO, the B ank of France, or any b a nk of issue ma in- t a i n i ng an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Trea- sury, as we ll as any am o u nt of fo r e ign bankno tes and co ins (except gold co in s) of coun t r ies outside the French F ranc A rea; res iden ts b r i n g i ng in fo re ign bankno tes or o ther fo re ign means of p a ym e nt mu st sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an au tho r ized bank w i th in eight days and must dec lare them to the customs upon en t ry. Capital A ll cap i tal mov em en ts be tween Ivo ry Coast and Rho- desia are p roh ib i ted. Cap i tal movemen ts between Ivory Coast and F rance (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and o ther Opera t ions Account coun t r i es in the French Franc Area are f r ee of exchange con t ro l; cap i tal t r an s f e rs to a ll o ther coun t r ies requ i re exchange con trol approval, but cap i tal rece ip ts f r om such c o u n t r i es a re pe rm i t ted f ree ly. Special con t ro ls ( a d d i t i o n al to any exchange con trol r e q u i r em e n ts t h at may be app l i c ab l e) a re m a i n t a i n ed over b o r r ow i ng ab road, over fo re ign i nw a rd d irect inv e s tm en t, over a ll o u tw a rd inv e s tm ent in f o r e i gn coun- t r ies, and over the i s su ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies in Ivo ry Coast; these controls re la te to the t r a n s a c t i o ns themse lves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the excep t ion of those r e l a t i ng to fo r- e ign secu r i t ie s, these con t rol measu res do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France (as def ined a b o v e ), Monaco, the other member coun t r i es of the West A f r i c an Mon e t a ry Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l ink ed w i th the F rench T reasu ry by an Ope ra t ions Accoun t. Special con t ro ls are m a i n t a i n ed also over impo r ts and expo r ts of gold, over the so l i c i t ing of f u n ds for deposit w i th f o r e i gn p r iv a te persons and fo re ign f i rms and i n s t i t u t i o n s, and over a ll p u b l i c i ty a imed at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution placing f u n ds abroad or at subsc r ib ing to real estate bu i ld ing opera t ions abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All inves tmen ts abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance.2 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Ivory Coast,3 must be declared to the M in i s ter of Economy and Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion du r ing which he may request the pos tponement of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The l iqu id a t ion of inves t- ments, whe ther direct inves tmen ts or no t, in Ivory Coast or abroad must s im i la r ly be declared in advance to the M in is te r. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu id a t ion of invest- ments, whether these are Ivory Coast inves tmen ts abroad or fo re ign inve s tmen ts in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the M in i s ter w i t h in 20 days f o l l ow i ng each ope ra t ion. Direct inve s tmen ts are de f ined as inve s tmen ts im p l y i ng control of a company or en te rp r ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the c ap i t al of a c om p a ny whose shares are quo ted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo re ign securities in Ivory Coast requ i res p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in i s t er of Economy and F inance, as do issues by Ivory Coast compan ies. Exempt f rom a u t h o r i z a t i o n, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f r om the Ivo ry Coast Govern- ment and (2) shares s im i l ar to secu r i t ies whose issue, o f fe r ing, or sale in Ivo ry Coast has p r ev iou s ly been au tho r ized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonres iden ts requ i res prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s t er of Economy and F inance. The f o l l ow i ng a re, howeve r, exempt f rom th is au tho r i z a t ion: ( 1) loans c o n s t i t u t i ng a d i rect inv e s tm en t, which are sub ject to p r ior d e c l a r a t ion, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans taken up by i n d u s t r i al f i rms to f inance t ransac t ions ab road, by any type of f irm to f inance imports in to or exports f rom Ivory Coast, or by approved i n t e r n a t i o n al t r a d i ng houses to f inance i n t e r n a t i o n al mer- chanting t ransac t ions; (3) loans con t rac ted by au tho r ized banks; and (4) loans o ther t h an those m e n t i o n ed above, when the to tal am o u nt o u t s t a n d i ng of these loan s, in c lud- ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l- lion for any one borrower, and p rov ided th at the a n n u al in terest ra te does not exceed the n o rm al m a r k et ra te. The repayment of loans c o n s t i t u t i ng a d i rect i n v e s tm e nt is sub ject to the f o rm a l i t i es prescribed for the l i q u i d a t i on of direct inv e s tm en t s. The r e p a ym e nt of o ther lo ans requ i res a u t h o r i z a t i on o n ly if the loan i t se lf was sub ject to prior approval. 2 I n c l u d i ng those m ade t h r o u gh the i n t e rm e d i a ry of f o r e i gn compa- nies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivo ry Coast and those made by b r an ch es or s u b s i d i a r i es ab ro ad of compan ies in Ivory Coas t. :J In c lud ing those made by compan ies in I v o ry Coast t h at are d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly u n d er f o r e i gn con t rol and those made by b ranches or subsidiaries in Ivo ry Coast of f o r e i gn comp an i e s. IVORY COAST is subject Lend ing abroad authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as h a v i ng p r io r i ty s ta tus. to exchange con trol Gold Residents are free to hold, acqu i re, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun t ry requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Economy and F inance, which is ra re ly g ran ted. Exempt f r om this r equ i r em ent are ( 1) impor ts and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured arti- cles c o n t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold- f i l led or gold-plated a r t ic le s ); and (3) impor ts and exports by trave lers of gold ar t ic les up to a we ight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt impor ts and exports of gold are subject to customs dec lara t ion. Changes during 1976 February 79. O rd inance No. 76-119 made the impor- ta t ion of vin ordinaire and specified basic food s tu f fs a s ta te monopoly. Decree No. 76-120 of the same date appo in ted the state en te rp r ise, A G R I P A C, the sole au tho- rized impor ter of specified fish and meat products, vege- tab les, and f r u i t s; Decree No. 76 -121, also of Febru- ary 19, appo in ted D ISTR IPAC the sole au tho r ized impo r ter for vin ordinaire. March 5. C i rcu lar No. 234 mod i f ied Decision No. 0135 MC /DE of J u ne 13, 1975, which had made imports of a ll tex t i les subject to p r ior app rova l. Specified tex t i le products for technical use became exempt f rom th is r equ i r em en t. March 5. Decree No. 76-166 made lead ba t te r ies sub- ject to impo rt license and to an a n n u al quo ta. This quo ta was set by Order No. 009 of March 10. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the Eu ropean common ma rg ins a r r ang em en t; the pa r i ty between the CFA f r a nc and the French f r a nc rema ined u n c h a n g e d. March 16-23. Ce r ta in impo rt commod i t ies were exempted f rom p re sh ipment inspec t ion, as were all impo r ts f r om coun t r ies where the Societe Generate de Surve i l lance was not established or represented. The l im it be low wh ich import orders were exempt f rom in spec t ion was set at CFAF 500,000 f .o .b. April 20-21. Decree No. 76-281 and Notice to Impo r te rs No. 76-0003 revised the impo rt con tro ls w i th effect f rom May 1. Henceforth, the import regime would be the same for all coun t r ies, irrespective of the or ig in or p rovenance of the goods. With the exception of items sub ject to p roh ib i t ion or quo ta, all goods wou ld be f u l ly impo r tab le. On ly a dec lara t ion of in ten t ion to import was needed for products that could be imported free ly ( f or con t rac ts of CFAF 100,000 f.o.b. or m o r e ). July 1. The West A f r ican Clearing House formally came in to operation. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.900364 gram of fine gold per Jama ica Dollar. On Feb rua ry 20, 1973, a central rate of J $l = US$1 .10 was established, corresponding at the time to J$ 1.09668 = SDR 1 or 0.810328 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar. The in terven t ion currency is the U.S. dollar and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. In practice, the Bank of Jama ica's dea l ings aga inst Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in Canad ian dollars, pounds s ter l ing, and U.S. dollars, to purchases of Canad ian, U.K., and U.S. bankno tes, and to pu r- chases of certain Caribbean and European b ankno t es (see be low ). It deals in other currencies on ly aga inst s ter l ing and U.S. dollars. The Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars at par, plus a comm iss ion of %« of 1 per cent on the se l l ing side. Exchange rates for cu r renc ies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the Bank of Jamaica's b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates against the U.S. do l lar for the currenc ies concerned in in te rna t ional marke ts. The Bank of Jama ica sets da i ly off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates for dea l ing w i th the b anks in s ter l ing and Canad ian dollars on the basis of the prev ious day's c los ing quo ta t ions in New York. On the basis of these rates, the B ank also fixes d a i ly rates at wh ich commercial banks must deal w i th the ir cus- tomers in t ransac t ions invo lv ing Jama ica do l lars against Canad ian dollars, pounds s ter l ing, or U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to fix its buy ing and se l l ing rates of exchange. On December 31, 1976 these rates re la t ing to spot dea l ings w i th the com- merc ial banks reflected no commission charge on pur- chases but a charge of %o of 1 per cent on sales. The comme rc ial banks applied a comm iss ion charge (pre- m i um) of % of 1 per cent on sales of fo re ign exchange to customers and a comm iss ion charge (d i scoun t) of Vs of 1 per cent on purchases. For purchases equ iva lent to J$ 1,000 or more, the comm iss ion charge ( d i s c o u n t) was waived. The Bank of Jama ica's b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar on December 2 1, 1976 were US$1 = J$0.9075 and US$1 = J$0.9125, respectively. The exchange m a rk et was closed on December 22 and rema ined closed for the rest of the year except for pur- chases of m inor amoun ts of travel fund s .1 1 On J a n u a ry 6, 1977 the m a r k et was reopened on a l im i t ed basis. New e x c h a n ge and t r a de mea su res we re a n n o u n c ed on J a n u a ry 19, 1977. These m e a s u r es we re as f o l l ow s: ( 1) The Bank of J am a i ca be- came the sole ag en cy for b u y i ng and s e l l i ng f o r e i gn ex ch ang e. Com- m e r c i al b anks w i ll on ly act as agen ts of the B ank of J am a i c a; they w i ll sell a ll f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge to the B a nk of J am a i ca and in t u rn w i ll p u r c h a se f o r e i gn ex ch ange f r om the B a nk of J am a i ca a g a i n st docu- m e n t a t i o n. (2) No f o r e i gn ex ch ange w i ll be sold for c a p i t al and in- come r em i t t an c es to em ig ran ts as well as r em i t t an c es for (a) s tuden ts s e e k i ng e d u c a t i on o t h er t h an h i g h er p ro f e s s ion al a nd t e c h n i c al educa- t i o n; (b) b en e f i c i a r i es of w i l ls; and ( c) g i f t s. Mo reover f r om M ay 1, 1977 no f o r e i gn exchange will be sold for the m a i n t e n a n ce of de- p e n d e n ts abroad o ther t h an in cases a l r e a dy app rov ed. (3) P a ym e n ts f or r o y a l t i e s, l i fe i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s, comm i s s ion s, fees, t r a d em a r k s, and m a n a g em e nt expenses w i ll be p laced in B locked A c c o u n ts u n t il 264 Under an a r rangement w i th the Central Banks of Tr in i- dad and Tobago and Barbados and the Bank of Guyana and w i th the East Car ibbean Currency Au tho r i ty, the Bank of Jama ica purchases b ankno t es issued by these mone tary authorities and repatriates them in re tu rn for reciprocity of t rea tment w i th respect to collections of Jama ica do l lars. The Bank's purchases are made at the m idd le rate de term ined on the basis of the p reva i l ing U.S. dollar rate; for transactions in these currencies, the commercial banks charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent e i ther side of the m idd le rate, b u y i ng and selling. There is a "bourse" ( in t e rb ank exchange ma rke t) in wh ich a ll commerc ial banks participate and in which only Canad ian dollars and pounds s te r l ing are traded against U.S. do l la rs. The Bank of Jamaica does not provide fo rwa rd cover to banks. Jama ica fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of A r t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f rom February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jama ica adm in i s te rs exchange control on beha lf of the M in is ter of F inance, subject to cer ta in l im i t a t i o ns in respect of wh ich the approval of the M in is ter is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers and have au thor i ty to provide fore ign exchange for permitted impor ts va lued at less than J$ 10,000, and for basic travel allowances and certain other paymen ts up to specified lesser amoun ts. Impo rt licenses are issued by the Trade Adm in i s t ra to r, who is responsible to the M in i s ter of M a rk e t ing and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an Ex te rnal Account or in any fo re ign currency .2 Receipts f rom all coun t r ies must be J u ne 30, 1977 wh en new gu ide l ines w i ll be issued. P aym en ts on exist- ing c o n s u l t a n cy and a d v e r t i s i ng con t rac ts as we ll as cha rges and fees for techn ical assistance and fea s ib i l i ty s tud ies w i ll be app roved on a m o n t h ly p ro r a ta basis u n t il J u ne 30, 1977. (4) D iv id ends payable to n o n r e s i d e nt sha reho lde rs or p a r e nt compan ies of b ranches op e r a t ing in Jama ica w i ll be l im i t ed to 7 per cent of net wo r th of the company or b r a n c h. (5) R em i t t a n c es of in t e r e st and p r i n c i p al on f o r e i gn indeb t- edness w i ll no rm a l ly be allowed in the q u a r t er f o l l o w i ng the q u a r t er in wh ich the p a ym e n ts acc rue. Compan ies, i n s t i t u t i o n s, and persons w i th f o r e i gn indeb tedne ss w i ll be r e q u i r ed to p r o v i de i n f o rm a t i on on such indeb tedness to the a u t h o r i t i e s. (6) W i th e f fect f rom Apr il 1, 1977 a person w i th a wo rk p e rm it w i ll be able to c red it to an Ex ternal Account a m a x im um of 20 per cent of his gross ea rn ing s. (7) Resi- den ts are r e q u i r ed to obtain permission f r om the exchange control au thor- i t ies be fo re p u r c h a s i ng local assets f r om non res iden ts. (8) Exchange w i ll be g r an t ed for "essential" business t ravel and for t r a v el on behalf of p u b l ic e n t i t i e s, the l a t t er be ing sub ject to the a p p r o v al of the M i n i s t ry of F in an c e. A l low an c es for h o l i d ay t r a v el w i ll be l im i t ed to J$50 a person. (9) The ce i l ing on impo rt licenses to be g ran ted in 1977 was set at J$600 million (compared w i th estimated imports of J$850 m i l l ion in 1976). To ensu re aga inst sho r tages of essential items, the G o v e r nm e nt will assume con trol of the impo r ta t ion of all essential commod i t ie s. - A ll c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an the J am a i ca do l lar a re cons idered fore ign c u r r e n c i e s. A ll f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es h a ve been d e s ign a t ed as specified c u r r e n c i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rece ived by d eb it of an Ex t e rn al Account or in any f o r e i gn cu r r en cy. Special r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to se t t le- m e n ts w i th Rhodes ia, and a ll p a ym e n ts to Rhodes ia r equ i re spec i f ic a u t h o r i z a t i o n. Nonresident Accounts The comm e r c i al b a n ks a re empowe red to open E x t e r n al Accoun ts in J am a i ca d o l l a rs f or n o n r e s i d e n ts except r e s id en ts of Rhode s ia, p rov ided t h at no c r ed it of J am a i ca d o l l a rs is m ade to the accoun ts w i t h o ut the spec i f ic a p p r o v al of the B a nk of J am a i c a. The f u n ds on these a c c o u n ts may be t r a n s f e r r ed f r e e ly be tween non r e s id en t s. E x t e r n al Accoun ts m ay be c red i ted w i th paymen ts by re s iden ts of J am a i ca app roved by the exchange con t rol a u t h o r i t i e s, w i th t r a n s f e rs f r om o ther E x t e r n al A c coun t s, and w i th the proceeds f r om the sa le to an a u t h o r i z ed dea ler of gold or f o r e i gn cu r r en c i e s. They may be deb i ted for p a ym e n ts to re s iden ts of J am a i c a, f or t r a n s f e rs to o th er E x t e r n al A c coun t s, a nd for the pu r ch a se of f o r e i gn cu r r en c i e s. A c c o u n ts wh i ch a re c r ed i t ed w i th f u n ds t h at m ay n ot be p laced at the f r ee d isposal of n o n r e s i d e n ts of J am a i ca ( i n c l u d i ng the proceeds f r om the sale of und ev e lop ed l a n d) a re de s igna ted B locked Accoun t s. B locked f u n ds may be inves ted in local mo r tgages and in J am a i ca do l l ar secu r i t ie s; the in come f r om such s e c u r i t i es is n o rm a l ly a v a i l a b le for c r ed it to an E x t e r n al A c coun t. A p p l i c a t i o ns for the release of f u n ds in Blocked Accoun ts for use in J am a i ca by the non r e s id ent owner m u st be referred to the B a nk of Jamaica. The assets of re s iden ts em i g r a t i ng to c o u n t r i es ou t s ide J am a i ca in excess of the prescribed s e t t l in g - in a l lowance of J$ 10,000 are re s t r ic ted u n d er Section 43 of the Exchange Con t rol Act (see sec t ion on C ap i t a l, b e l ow ). Imports and Import Payments" A sm a ll n um b er of goods may be impo r ted f ree ly f r om v i r t u a l ly a ll sources u n d er an open gene ral license .4 A ll o ther im p o r ts r equ i re specific l icenses, i r respec t ive of o r i g i n. For some goods, l icenses are not no rm a l ly issued un l e ss they o r i g i n a te in member c o u n t r i es of the Ca r ibbean Common M a r k et ( CAR ICOM ) .r> Im p o r ts are sub jec t, in p r i n c i p l e, to a global a n n u al ce i l ing. Impo r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in Rhodes ia or Sou th A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted, and a ll impo r ts o r i g i n a t i ng in the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina or Cuba requ i re i n d i v i d u al impo rt licenses. Ce r ta in food i tems may be impo r t ed on ly by a pub l ic sector agency, the J am a i ca N u t r i t i o n al Ho ld ings L im i ted. :!On J a n u a ry 6, 1977 it w as a n n o u n c ed t h at u n t il f u r t h er no t i ce im- port p a ym e n ts wou ld be con f ined to tho se im p o r ts t h at h ad a l r e a dy been l a n d e d, and on w h i ch s e t t l em e n ts we re d u e. On J a n u a ry 19, 1977 a c e i l ing of J$600 m i l l i on was set on im p o rt l icen ses to be g r a n t ed in 1977. * For these goods, the open gene ral l icense app l i es to a ll c o u n t r i es except Rhodes ia and Sou th A f r i c a. Goods im p o r t ed u n d er t he l i c en se must be con s igned f r om one of the p e rm i t t ed c o u n t r i es and m u st also o r i g i n a te in a p e rm i t t ed c o u n t r y. 5 The CAR ICOM c o u n t r i es a re A n t i g u a, Ba rbados, Be l ize, Dom in i c a, G r en ad a, G u y a n a, J am a i c a, M o n t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. Lu c i a, S t. V i n c e n t, and T r i n i d ad and Tobago. For im p o rt l i c e n s i ng purposes, the B ah am as a re also t r e a t ed as a CAR ICOM c o u n t r y. JAMAICA Paymen ts for imports equ iva lent to J$ 10,000 or more are sub ject to pr ior reg is tra t ion w i th the Bank of J am a i ca and a ll paymen ts for impo r ts are subject to the l i c en s ing r equ i r em en t s, if any, being met, and the im p o r t er p r e s en t ing a copy of the settlement invoice or other ev idence of pu rchase and va lue, toge ther w i th d o c um e n t a ry ev idence th at the goods e i ther have been sh ipped or are about to be sh ipped, or that the impo r ter is u n d er con t r a ct to make p r e p a ym e nt up to s ix mon ths p r ior to s h i pm e n t; specific exchange con t rol app roval is r equ i r ed for advance p aym en t s. C e r t a in goods are sub ject to a con sump t ion tax, whe ther they a re impo r t ed or m a n u f a c t u r ed domes t i- c a l ly. Where such goods are impo r ted, the tax is col- lected at the port of e n t ry and is ca lcu la ted on the sum of the v a l ue accepted for cus toms and the cu s toms d u t y. Payments for Invisibles® P aym en ts for i n v i s i b l es requ i re the app roval of the exchange con t rol au tho r i t i e s. The f o l l ow i ng a r r ang e- m e n ts app l ied at December 21, 1976. App roval is g r an t ed f r e e ly for p a ym e n ts for a ll comme rc ial t r a n s- a c t ion s, w h en the app l i c a t ion is suppo r ted by the appro- p r ia te d o c um e n t a ry ev idence. A basic exchange a l loca- t ion of J$500 a person for each 12 -mon th period for f o r e i gn t r a v el o ther t h an for bus iness and p ro fess ional reasons is made a v a i l a b le a u t om a t i c a l ly to res iden ts by the a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs; th is a l low an ce may be accumu- la ted for up to two yea rs in the case of persons over 18 years of age. Additional am o u n ts are gran ted in cases of h a rd sh ip. F a c i l i t i es for t r av el for bu s ine ss and p ro f e s s ion al reasons may be p rov ided by au tho r ized b anks at the ra te of J$60 a day for up to ten days wh i le a p p l i c a t i o ns for h igher am o u n ts a re dea lt w i th by the Bank of J am a i c a. Expenses for ho tel accommoda- t ion s, mea ls en rou te, etc., t h at a re settled in J am a i ca in domes t ic cu r rency mu st be deduc ted f rom the t r a v el a l lo c a t ion s. Au tho r ized dea lers m ay, sub ject to the p resen ta t ion of suppo r t ing ev idence, approve paymen ts for the fo l low- i n g: con su l ar fees w i thout l i m i t, as we ll as t r a n s f e rs f rom the M in i s t ry of Ex ternal A f f a i rs to accounts in the names of embassies and th e ir e s tab l i shed s t a f f s, H igh Comm i s s ione r s, and d i p l om a t s; and up to a l i m it of J$100 for sub sc r ip t ions to t rade o rgan iza t ions and p ro fe s s ional o rg an i z a t ion s, and for membe r sh ip dues, reg is t ra t ion fees, correspondence courses, e x am i n a t i on fees, and impo r ts of books, magaz ine s, pe r iod ica ls, and other pub l ica t ion s. Requests for a d d i t i o n al amoun ts (except for t r a v e l) or for purposes for wh ich there are no s tanda rd l im i ts (e.g., rem i t tances by cha r i tab le i n s t i t u t i o n s) a re approved if the a u t h o r i t i es a re sa t isf ied (i On December 22, 1976 the f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge m a r k et was closed ex- cept for dea l ings in m inor am o u n ts of t r av el f u n d s. On J a n u a ry 6, 1977 it w as a n n o u n c ed t h at u n t il f u r t h er n o t i ce e x c h a n ge w o u ld be p r o v i d e d, a f t er r i g o r o us s c r u t i n y, on ly f or h i g h - p r i o r i ty bu s ine ss t r a v e l, g o v e r nm e nt and p u b l ic sector t r a v e l, and o th er essen t ial t r a v e l, sub ject to a l i m it of J $ 1 5 0. The sale of fo r e ign e x c h a n ge for m a i n t e n a n ce and e d u c a t i on a l l ow a n c es a l r e a dy app roved wou ld be c o n t i n u ed (see foo t- no te 1 ). 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA that no capital flight is involved. Non-Jama icans work- ing in Jamaica under a work perm it are as a ru le allowed to rem it abroad on ly 40 per cent of the ir gross salary. Residents going abroad may take w i th them Jama ica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other bankno tes not exceeding J$50. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods va lued at not more than J$200 ( f . o . b .) may be free ly exported by post or air express to any coun try not on the prohibited list.7 Where the v a l ue exceeds this amount the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral products, amm u n i t i o n, explosives, f i r e a rm s, an t ique f u r n i t u r e, ready -made ga rmen ts, gold b u l l i o n, m ine ral and me tal ores, and an t ique p a in t ing s. Expo r t- ers are requ ired to su r render the ir exchange proceeds to au tho r ized dealers w i t h in three mon ths f r om the date of shipment. However, ce r ta in exporters may re ta in, w i th the approval of the exchange con t rol au tho r i t ies, an agreed po r t ion of the ir se t t lement of overseas comm i tmen ts necessary for th e ir ope ra t ion s; such re ta ined export proceeds mu st not be sold to other nonb ank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f r om inv is ib les in fo re ign currenc ies must be sold to an au thor ized dealer. Res iden ts r e t u r n i ng to Jama ica may b r ing in J am a i ca bankno tes up to J$20 a t rave le r, provided th is amount was declared on leav ing the coun t ry, and a ll t rave le rs may b r ing in any amount of other b ankno t e s; res ident trave lers are requ ired to sell their ho ld ings of fo re ign cu r renc ies to a local authorized dealer upon re tu rn. Tourists are requ i red to settle the ir hotel b i l ls in f o r e i gn currenc ies un less they cou ld prove that they had pu rchased an equ iva lent amo u nt of Jama ica do l lars f r om an au tho- rized bank in Jama ica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned cap i tal are res t r ic ted, irrespective of the ir de s t ina t ion. Inves tmen ts ab road by residents requ ire the approval of the exchange con trol au tho r i t ies and a re not approved un less th ey resu lt in tang ib le bene f i ts for J am a i c a. Res iden ts mu st o b t a in prior approval f rom the Bank of Jama ica to m a ke cash gifts, wh ich are no rm a l ly l im i ted to J$100 in any 12-month period f rom each adu lt donor, to non re s iden ts of Jama ica. With the exception of certain types of inves tment in real estate, all approved d irect inves tmen ts in Jama ica 7 The list comprises A l b a n i a, B u l g a r i a, C z e cho s lov ak i a, G e rm an Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, Po l and, R h o d e s i a, R om a n i a, Sou th A f r i c a, and U.S.S.R. Expo r ts to these c o u n t r i es r e q u i re spec i f ic licenses. In p rac t ice, no licenses a re issued for expo r ts to Sou th A f r i c a, and expo r ts to Rhodes ia a re p r o h i b i t e d. 266 by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under wh ich the investor is given w r i t ten assurance that he w i ll be able to repa tr ia te at any t ime his original invest- ment plus any capital ga in. In order to ob ta in approved s ta tus, the inves tor must app ly to the Bank of Jama ica. Rem i t tances of cu r rent i tems, such as profits and divi- dends, are permitted in f u ll when the app l ica t ion is supported by the appropr ia te set of accounts. Paymen ts for amor t iza t ion of, and interest on, fore ign loans approved by the Bank of Jama ica are permitted upon app l ica t ion to the exchange control authorities. However, non res iden ts are n o rm a l ly not pe rm i t ted to take secur i ty in respect of loans made to Jama ican compan ies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonres iden ts of Jama ica and to non- res iden t-con tro l led companies is subject to selective credit con tro ls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be non res iden t -con t ro l led when the con t ro l l ing interest is held b en e f i c i a l ly, e i ther d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly, by per- sons res ident ou ts ide the CAR ICOM area. Such l e n d i ng is sub ject to app roval by the Bank of Jama ica; autho- rized dealers may, however, without reference to the exchange con t rol au tho r i t ies, make loans or ove rd ra f ts to non res iden ts of Jama ica up to J$2,000 for certain spec if ied purposes. Au tho r ized dealers may also w i thout re fe rence to the exchange con trol au tho r i t ies make loans or ov e rd r a f ts to res ident compan ies or b ranches con- t ro l led by nonres iden ts up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not spec if ica l ly precluded under some pr ior cond i t ional permission f rom the exchange control au tho r i t ie s. O ther requests are re fe r red to the Bank of J am a i c a. In genera l, fore ign non re s iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to raise local mortgages. However, non re s iden ts wo rk ing in Jama ica under a work perm it may acquire a house to l ive in, w i th the pe rm iss ib le am o u nt of mor tgage restricted to 50 per cen t; the t r a n s f er of cap i tal gains made f r om real estate t ran sac t ions by such persons is res tr ic ted on the ir em ig ra t ion to J$ 10,000 a year. For- e ign se l lers of land whose f u n ds are blocked under the r egu l a t ions of J a n u a ry 1974 and persons whose f u n ds are restricted und er Section 43 of the Exchange Control Act can invest the blocked or res tr ic ted f u n ds in Jama ica in stocks registered loca l ly and in mor tgages, and income t h e r e f r om can be r em i t t e d, sub ject to a m a x im um of J$50,000 a n n u a l l y. Foreign non r e s id ent owners of real p rope r ty in J am a i c a, when se l l ing it to res iden ts of J am a i c a, a re allowed to r em it f rom J am a i c a, in the f i r st in s t an c e, the amount they paid o r i g i n a l ly f r om funds b rought i n to J am a i c a; the ba lance of the sale price can be r em i t t ed in ten equal in s t a l lm en t s, sub ject to a m i n im um r em i t t a n ce in any one year of J$ 10,000, except whe re the owner had rece ived a previous und e r- t a k i ng th at the i n v e s tm e nt in l and ca r r ied "approved s ta tus ." Foreign non r e s id ent owne rs of houses bu i lt on r e s i d e n t i al lots are dea lt w i th in the same m a n n e r, pro- v ided th at the non res ident seller can s a t i s fy the Bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acqu i r- ing the lot and con s t ruc t ing the b u i l d i ng thereon. Jama ican na t iona ls em ig ra t ing are gran ted a se t t l ing - in allowance of the equ iva lent of J$ 10,000 at the off ic ial ma rket rate of exchange (up to J$20,000 on a basis of need where the em ig rant is 60 years of age or over and has retired f rom w o r k ); any assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for f o ur years. On the fou r th ann ive rsa ry of the em ig ran t 's depa r tu re f rom Jama ica, the em ig r ant may rem it up to J$ 10,000 a f a m i ly u n i t, and s im i l ar amoun ts a n n u a l ly the rea f te r. Em ig ran ts in possession of overseas assets at the t ime of em ig ra t ion are en t i t led to rem i t tances on ly when the accumu la ted rem i t tance en t i t lemen t s, referred to above, plus the se t t l ing - in allowance for an em ig rant f am i ly u n it of J$ 10,000, exceed the va lue of his proper ty abroad, va lued on the basis of the ir cu r r ent v a l ue at the t ime of em i g r a t i o n; however, if the em i g r a nt can prove that the assets held abroad by him were not t r an s f e r r ed d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly f rom Jama ica, such assets are not taken in to account in the c a l cu l a t ion of the am o u n ts released. Moreover, the am o u n ts of p e rm i t t ed releases are increased to the ex tent th at p rope r ty owned by the em ig r ant in J am a i ca at the t ime of em i g r a t i on was acqu i red f r om the proceeds of the em ig r an t 's own f u n ds brought in f rom outside Jama ica. These a r r ang em en ts a re app l icab le also to n a t u r a l i z ed J am a i c an c i t i z e n s, and to n o n n a t i o n a ls r e s id ent in J am a i ca who a re not sub ject to the provisions of the Work Perm it Law. For em i g r a n t s' in come a r i s i ng f r om p rope r ty in J am a i ca or any other source in J am a i c a, wh e th er by way of salaries, comm iss ions, fees, shares of prof i ts, or of any o ther k i nd wha tsoeve r, r em i t t a n c es a re res tr ic ted to the lowest of the f o l l ow i ng l im i t s: ( 1) J$50,000 per a n n um af ter tax; (2) 10 per cent per a n n um of the va lue of the p rope r ty in J am a i c a; or (3) ac tual i n c ome a r i s i ng each year in J am a i c a. Where the em i g r a nt owned p rope r ty ab road at the t i me of em i g r a t i o n, the am o u n ts u n d er ( 1 ), ( 2 ), a nd ( 3) a re reduced by a s um e q u i v a l e nt to 10 per cent of the fo re ign p rope r ty v a l u e, such v a l ue be ing reduced each year by the am o u nt of J$25,000. However, the r e d u c t i o ns do not a p p ly whe re the prop- er ty owned ab road was not t r a n s f e r r ed f rom J am a i ca or out of the proceeds of such t r a n s f e r, or was t r a n s f e r r ed abroad w i th the pe rm iss ion of the au tho r i t i e s. R em i t t a n c es to b en e f i c i a r i es u n d er w i l ls or in t e s t a c i es a re l im i t ed to J$ 10,000 d i v i d ed am o ng them in the f i rst i n s t a n c e; J$ 10,000 for a ll b en e f i c i a r i es at the end of the f o u r th year a f t er f irst app roval of a d i s t r i b u t i on in cash or k i n d; and J $l 0,000 am o ng th em a year th e r e a f t e r. Gold Two comm emo r a t ive gold co ins of J$20 and J$100 a re legal tender but do not c i r cu l a t e. R e s i d e n ts may hold and a c q u i re gold co ins in J am a i ca for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th th is ex c ep t ion, res iden ts other t h an the mon e t a ry a u t h o r i t i es and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users JAMAICA are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm o ther than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other th an jewe lry requ i re licenses issued by the M in is try of F in an c e; such licenses are not no rm a l ly granted except for impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and indus- t r i al users. All commercial imports of jewe l ry are pro- h ib i ted. t a r i ff prefer- Changes during 1976 January 1. Jama ica 's Commonwea l th ences were abolished. February 14. The impo rt target for 1976 was set at J$850 m i l l i o n. February 26. Fore ign v i s i to rs would hence fo r th be r equ i r ed to se t t le the ir hotel b i l ls in fo re ign currency un less they could provide ev idence that they had pu r- chased an am o u nt of J am a i ca do l la rs at least equ al to the am o u nt of the b i ll f r om an au tho r ized b ank in J am a i c a. February 26. The am o u n ts that m i g ht be rem i t ted to b en e f i c i a r i es u n d er w i l ls or in tes tac ies were reduced to J$ 10,000 for all bene f ic ia r ies at the end of the fou r th year a f t er f irst approval of a d i s t r i b u t i on in cash or k i nd and J$ 10,000 am o ng them a year t h e r e a f t e r. The l im it of J$ 10,000 for d i s t r ibu t ion among beneficiaries in t he f i r st in s t an ce r em a i n ed u n c h a n g e d. February 26. The e n t i t l em e nt for cap i tal r em i t t an c es was reduced f rom J$50,000 a f am i ly u n it on the fou r th a n n i v e r s a ry of the em ig r an t 's depa r tu re f rom J am a i ca and J$25,000 a year in subsequent years to J$ 10,000 and J$ 10,000, respectively. The s e t t l ing - in allowance e n t i t l em e nt of J$10,000 r em a i n ed u n c h a n g e d. Feb rua ry 26. Business firms were requested to restrict fo r e ign exchange demands for bus iness travel in 1976 to th ree f o u r t hs of the am o u nt spent in 1975. Sales of exchange in am o u n ts in excess of the 75 per cent l i m it wou ld be a l lowed by the au tho r ized banks up to the p rev ious l im i t s, i .e ., at the rate of J$60 a day for up to ten days a t r i p. As be fo re, app l i c a t ions for am o u n ts in excess of the J$60 a day l i m it wou ld be d e a lt w i th by the Bank of J am a i c a. February 27. Impo r ts of mo tor veh ic les were b ann ed for the r em a i n d er of the year. April 27. The CAR ICOM Counc il of M i n i s t e rs reached ag reement on a new system bv wh i ch goods wou ld q u a l i fy f or C omm on M a rk et ( i . e ., d u t y - f r e e) t r e a tm e n t. E l i g i b i l i ty f or Common Ma rket t rea tment wou ld depend upon the ex tent of the m a n u f a c t u r i ng process p e r f o rm ed w i t h in the CAR ICOM area and the o r i g in of the i n p u ts u t i l ized in such processing. The new sy s tem, wh en it becomes e f fec t ive, wou ld replace the p r e s ent 50 per cent local va lue-added c r i te r ion. July 21. The overall impo rt target was reduced to J$820 m i l l i o n. In the "other con sum er goods" category l icenses were to be issued on ly for pha rmaceu t ica ls and spa re pa r ts for the r em a ind er of the year. Licenses for cap i tal goods were to be l im i ted to spare parts and 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA indus tr ial mach inery, the needs of the export sector, and certain bu i ld ing ma te r ia ls. July 26. The Bank of Jama ica announced new a r rangemen ts to govern the purchase of fo re ign exchange for travel. A l though the new regu la t ion did not change the basic a n n u al J$500 allowance per person, it s t ipu- la ted that a trave ler could take out of Jama ica on ly the equ iva lent of J$50 in fo re ign cu r rency notes. The ba lance had to be taken out in the f o rm of t rave le rs checks, letters of c red i t, or o ther documen ts. July 26. The f a c i l i ty to a c cumu l a te t ravel f u n ds to J$ l ,000 ( two years' a l lowance) was d iscon t inued for persons und er the age of 18 years. July 27. It was announced that no f u r t h er licenses for tex t i le imports for resale (except f r om CAR ICOM te r r i to r ie s) wou ld be issued for the r em a ind er of 1976. December 22. The Foreign exchange m a r k et in Jama ica was closed except for purchases of exchange and sales of t ravel f u n ds not exceed ing the equ iv a l ent of J$150 a person. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a lue is 0.00246853 g ram of fine gold per Japanese Yen. A c en t r al ra te of ¥ 308.00 = US$1 has been established, and J a p an ava i ls itself of w ider ma r- gins. Since Feb rua ry 14, 1973, howeve r, the au tho r i t i es have not m a i n t a i n ed the exchange ra te of the yen w i t h in any announced ma rg in s. The in t e rb ank se l l ing ra te for the U.S. do l lar on December 31, 1976 was about ¥ 293 per US$1. Au thor ized banks may f r e e ly ca r ry out spot and fo rwa rd exchange t ran sac t ions w i th non re s ident banks and among themse lves; th e ir f o rw a rd t r an s a c t ions with resident customers m u st have a pe rm i t ted u n d e r l y- ing t ransac t ion. Japan f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom Ap r il 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange con trol system is opera ted by the M i n- istry of F inance, the M in i s t ry of I n t e r n a t i o n al Trade and Industry (M I T I ), and the B ank of Japan as the Gov- ernment's agent. However, most of the au tho r i ty for approving normal paymen ts is delegated to au tho r ized banks referred to as fo re ign exchange banks. Impo rt and export l icens ing is hand led by MITI. Inwa rd direct investments of a long-term charac ter requ i re the approval of the Minister of F inance and other compe tent m in i s- ters. (Most industries have already been liberalized, see section on Cap i ta l, below .) Ou twa rd d irect invest- ments require the app roval of the M in i s ter of F inance in exceptional cases only. Prescription of Currency Payments to all coun tr ies may be made in any cur- rency, inc lud ing yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen w i th fore ign coun- tries must be made th rough a Non res ident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the M in is ter of F inance or the M in is ter of In terna t ional Trade and Indus t ry; in m a ny cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in non res ident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited w i th the yen pro- ceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and f rom other authorized transactions, w i th yen proceeds f rom sales of all foreign currencies, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other Free Yen Accoun ts, w i th in terest accrued on balances in these accoun ts, and w i th the coun te rva lue in yen of au tho r ized ou twa rd paymen t s. There are no restrictions on p a ym e n ts f r om these accounts, and balances may be conver ted f ree ly in to any fo re ign cu r rency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accoun ts may be held by any nonres ident w i th any authorized b ank in Japan. They may be credited w i th yen proceeds f r om t r an s a c t ions other than those wh ich are au tho r ized to be credited to Non re s ident Free Yen Accoun ts. P e rm i t t ed credits to Non re s ident Yen Deposit Accoun ts are l im i ted m a i n ly to proceeds f rom the sales of deben tures and bene f ic ia ry certificates sold w i th in six mon ths f r om the da te of va l ida ted acqu is i t ion. Balances o u t s t a n d i ng on December 31, 1970 were perm i t ted to be t r an s f e r r ed to Non re s ident Free Yen Accounts or to be r em i t t ed abroad. Balances accrued a f t er that da te are not convertible into fore ign currencies, although remit- tances are pe rm i t ted each year up to 30 per cent of the ba lance at the end of the previous year or the equ iva lent of ¥ 720,000, wh ichever is h ighe r. W i thd r aw a ls f rom these accounts are au tho r ized for cer ta in purposes, such as mee t ing the ou t lays invo lved in m a n a g i ng inves t- men ts in J ap an and the expenses of nonres iden ts s tay ing in Japan. Transfers to other Non res ident Yen Deposit Accoun ts may be made f ree ly, thus enab l ing the ind i- v i d u al account holder to repa t r ia te h is f u n ds by se l l ing them to ano ther non re s ident in r e t u rn for fo re ign cu r- rency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom Rhodesia are in pr inc ip le proh ib i ted. O ther impor ts are sub ject either to ind iv idu al l icens ing by the au thor ized banks or, if l ibe ra l ized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports r equ i r ing payment in fo re ign cu r renc ies: ( 1) Under the Impo rt Quota System (cove r ing impor ts of goods on the "negative list," wh ich comprises 82 items, in t e rms of the fou r- d ig it Brussels nomenc la tu re; 27 of the 82 items on the "negative list" have been notified to the GATT as res idual res t r ic t ions wh i le the other 55 i tems have been no t if ied as f a l l i ng under the na t ional secur i ty, pub l ic health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT), the impor ter must first obtain f rom MITI an import quota, which is based on the quan t i ta t ive principle. If the quo ta is g ran ted, the impo r ter receives an impo rt quota cer t if ica te wh ich entitles him to receive an import license f rom an au thor ized bank au toma t ica l ly upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, w i thout regard to the coun t ry of o r ig in or the currency of settlement, by MITI. (2) Under the Declaration System, imports are free of quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ion and l icens ing and requ ire only a 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items may be imported f rom any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include certain da iry prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, and raw and manu- factured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" me thods of settlement for imports. When the settlement proposal is not in accordance w i th one of the "standard" methods (i.e., when certain advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four mon ths a f ter customs c lea rance ), prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the M in is ter of In te rna- t ional Trade and Industry. Paymen ts to other coun tr ies for invisibles also require approva l, but cu r rent payments are not restricted and most such paymen ts are approved f ree ly by fore ign exchange banks w i thout any l im i t a t ion or w i th in cer ta in established l im i ts. Paymen ts for ce r ta in invisibles, in c lud ing payments that exceed the established l im i ts, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the pur- pose of capital control; upon ve r i f ica t ion of the au then- t ic i ty of the current transac t ions, they are a u t om a t i c a l ly approved without undue de lay. Residents may purchase fo re ign currenc ies for paymen ts in connection w i th travel abroad up to US$3,000 a person a t r ip, subject to va l ida t ion by a foreign exchange bank; app l ica t ions in excess of US$3,000 a person a t r ip requ ire the approval of the Bank of Japan. A traveler is pe rm i t ted to pay in yen or in foreign cu r rency, before depa r tu re, the cost of t ran spo r ta t ion to and f rom h is des t ina t ion and for a ll side trips. Residents may f ree ly and at any t ime make paymen ts abroad up to US$1,000 a rem i t tance, for v i r t u a l ly any purpose other than import paymen t s, repaymen ts on loans, and technical assistance paymen ts, etc.; the corre- spond ing amount for cu r rent inv is ib les related to trade is also US$1,000 for each rem i t tance. Cer ta in in su r an ce and technical assistance contracts requ i re app rova l; but when a license for a con t ract has been g ran ted, any pay- ment re su l t ing f rom the con t ract may be made f ree ly. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in pr inc ip le, i n d i v i d u al app rova l; w i thout such approval, paymen ts for services, etc., may not be made more than three mon ths be fo re or la ter th an s ix mon ths a f ter receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and non re s iden ts may take out f r e e ly up to ¥ 100,000 in Japanese currency. Subject to ve r i f i- ca t ion, i.e., upon presen ta t ion of d o c um e n t a t i on show ing any prior conversion of fo re ign cu r rency, a non re s ident may free ly purchase fo re ign currenc ies up to the amount which he brought in to Japan; w i thout ve r i f ica t ion the conversion into fore ign currenc ies is l im i ted to the equivalent of US$1,000. 270 Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All exports to Iran, Iraq, and Nigeria require special authorization. All exports (except exports with- out exchange) must be registered with a fore ign exchange bank ("bank cer t if ica t ion"). Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the fo l low ing restrictions: restrictions on cer- ta in goods to control their export to specified com- munist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., some staple foods ); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain tex t i le s ). Exports under processing and con- s ignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not und er the "standard" method also requ ire ind i- v i d u al licenses. Export r e s t r a int may be exercised by v i r tue of the Export and Impo rt Transaction Law and an export trade con trol order issued "under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export res tra int may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volumes, prices, and other conditions. At the end of 1976, 79 export cartels existed under the provisions of the Export and Impo rt Transaction Law. Of these, 50 requ ired pr ior notice of exporters' agree- men ts in respect of export t ransac t ions, 29 required prior approval of m anu f a c tu r e r s' agreemen ts on domestic t ran sac t ions in goods for export, and 10 were reinforced by an export license requ i remen t. In add i t ion, 20 items were subject to export license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. There were also a number of i n f o rm al practices to vo lun tar i ly res t ra in exports of certain items to specified markets, w i th or w i t h o ut gu idance by MITI. Under the "s tandard" method of se t t lement for exports, the va lue of the exported goods must, in gen- era l, be settled by d r aw ing a bill of exchange payable w i t h in f ive mon ths a f t er sight or w i th in s ix mon ths a f ter sh ipmen t. There are no su r render requ iremen ts for fo re ign cu r rency ea rn ing s. The conversion into yen of advance receipts in respect of exports, i.e., proceeds received be fo re sh ipmen t, requ ires an ind iv idual license when they exceed the equ iva lent of US$500,000. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts und er the "s tandard" method of se t t lement may be accepted w i thout a l icense. Under th is method, receipts for the v a lue of services, etc., must be obtained w i t h in one year before, or w i t h in six months af ter, r end e r ing the service, etc. Contracts for services per- fo rmed for non res iden ts when payment is to be received by a non s t and a rd method are subject to ind iv idu al licens- ing. Rece ip ts f r om invisibles need not be surrendered. Both res iden ts and nonres iden ts may b r ing in freely any am o u nt in fo re ign or Japanese cu r rency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, m a i n ly in accordance w i th the Law Concern- ing Foreign Investment (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisi- tions of stocks, bonds, debentures, benef ic iary certifi- cates, and claims in the fo rm of loans by fore ign inves- tors are, in principle, subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks for por tfo l io investment are au toma t ica l ly approved by the Bank of Japan. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain rem i t tance rights upon validation. Stocks in the fo rm of stock dividends f rom earned surp lus or reva lua t ion of assets may be acquired freely, but application for rem i t tance rights must be made w i th in three mon ths f rom the date of acqu is i t ion. At present, the acquisition of Japanese securities by nonresidents is not restricted, although subject in the case of shares to the fore ign ownersh ip limits. The fo l low ing are deemed to be the same as yen pro- ceeds f rom the sale of fo re ign exchange, if they are rein- vested in Japan and if approval had been ob ta ined for their acqu is i t ion: proceeds f rom the redemp t ion a f t er m a tu r i ty of deben tures, bene f ic ia ry certificates, or c la ims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks, in te rest on debentures or on c la ims in the fo rm of loans; d is t r ibu ted profits f rom bene f ic ia ry certificates; receipts f rom tech- nological assistance contracts; and proceeds f r om sales of stocks, deben tures, and bene f ic ia ry certificates. In the event of exp rop r ia t ion or compu lsory sale of a foreign inve s tmen t, the am o u nt pa id because of expro- priation may be repa t r ia ted f ree ly. The rem i t tance of the proceeds f r om the sale of va l i- dated stocks ( s h a r e s ), as well as the t r a n s f er abroad of earn ings on fo re ign inves tmen ts acqu ired w i th fo re ign currency, is pe rm i t ted. Proceeds f r om the sale of stocks may be deposited in Non res ident Free Yen Accounts. Proceeds f rom the sale of bonds, debentures, and bene- f ic iary cer t if ica tes no rm a l ly may be deposited in Nonres i- dent Free Yen Accoun ts, if the secu r i t ies have been held for six mon ths f r om the da te of a c q u i s i t i o n. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, deben tu re s, bene f ic ia ry certificates, etc., acqu i red w i th yen w i t h d r awn f r om Nonres ident Yen Deposit Accoun ts may be deposited in Nonres ident Free Yen Accoun t s, p rov ided that the securities have been held for at least three years f r om the date of acqu i s i t ion. There are no special ru les prescribing th at the yen proceeds f r om sales of secur i t ies by non res iden ts mu st w i t h in any specified period be either reinvested in secu r i t ies or conve r ted in to f o r e i gn currency for t r a n s f er ab road. Repaymen ts of loans ex tended to res iden ts f rom Non- resident Yen Deposit Accoun ts become rem i t tab le, sub- ject to l icens ing by the Bank of J ap an, b e g i n n i ng three years f rom the da te of the loan. JAPAN When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to in fo rm the M in is t ry of F inance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by fore ign companies wish to b r ing in funds f rom their ma in offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance w i th approved pro- cedures are permitted to remit the ir profits and pr inc i- pal abroad. Foreign direct inves tment in Japan genera l ly requ ires approval by the M in is ter of Finance and other compe- tent m in is te rs a f ter deliberation ( in ce r ta in impo r tant cases) by the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownersh ip up to 100 per cent is perm i t ted in new or existing enterprises in a ll but four indus t r ies. In three of these f o ur indus tr ies, inves tment is subject to case-by- case screen ing and in one, fo re ign ownersh ip is permitted a u t om a t i c a l ly up to 50 per cent. The present l ibe ra l iza- t ion applies both to the e s tab l i shment of new firms and (p rov ided in all cases that the firm concerned consents) to take-overs of ex is t ing firms or pa r t ic ipa t ion in ex i s t ing firms. Purchases by nonres iden ts of real estate in Japan for res iden t ial or other nonp ro f it purposes and of offices requ i re app roval by the B ank of Japan, and those of real estate for other purposes requ i re approval by the M in i s ter of F inance. The app roval of the Bank is g iven au toma t ica l ly. The t r an s f er abroad of capital by residents and the m a k i ng of inves tmen ts abroad are subject to approva l, but approval gene ra l ly is either au tom a t ic or f ree ly g iven for ou tward direct inves tmen t, purchases of real estate abroad, and ou twa rd po r t fo l io inves tmen t. However, the acqu i s i t ion by residents of fo re ign sho r t - te rm securi- ties w i th m a tu r i t i es of one year or less is not pe rm i t ted. Foreign borrowers are f r om t ime to t ime pe rm i t ted to issue yen bonds on the Japanese cap i tal ma rke t. Japa- nese em ig r an ts may rem it any amount f r om th e ir assets to any coun try subject on ly to ver if ica t ion by a foreign exchange bank. Em i g r a n ts of fo re ign n a t ion a l i ty l e a v i ng Japan also may rem it to any coun t ry any amount of personal assets, sub ject to ve r i f ica t ion by a fo r e ign exchange b a n k. Cer ta in types of ou tf lows of long-term cap i tal are f a c i l i t a t ed by a fo re ign cu r rency lend ing system u n d er wh ich gove rnment i n s t i t u t i o ns and fore ign exchange b anks are au tho r ized to make fo re ign cu r rency loans to residents for 50 per cent of the ir direct invest- m ent operations abroad and for advance payments in respect of impor ts. Ou twa rd financial credits and loans are sub ject to l icens ing. The issu ing of bonds abroad, i n c l u d i ng issues for conversion into yen for domestic use, also is subject to l icen s ing; d u r i ng 1976 such issues were pe rm i t ted liberally. Securities acquired w i th approval under the Law Conce rn ing Foreign Inves tment may be imported and exported f ree ly. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Foreign exchange banks are subject to controls over the ir overall net position in fo re ign cu r rency (spot and fo rwa rd comb in ed ). The sw i tch ing of spot fo re ign cur- rency into yen by fo re ign exchange banks is also subject to regu la t ion; the ir in te ro f f ice l iab i l i t ies on Non re s ident Free Yen Accounts are regarded as fo re ign cu r rency l iab i l i t ies for the app l ica t ion of th is r egu l a t ion. The interest rates on Non res ident Free Yen Accoun ts mu st not exceed those on res iden t-owned deposits, but o the r- wise are not sub ject to control. L iab i l i t ies on Non res i- dent Free Yen Accounts are subject to reserve requ ire- men ts, but the reserve ra t io aga inst such accoun ts has been e l im ina ted since September 12, 1974. Gold Residents, i n c l u d i ng domestic producers of gold, may f ree ly hold gold and purchase and sell it in domes t ic transac t ions. The impo rt of gold b u l l i on c o n t a i n i ng more than 45 per cent of gold in weight no rm a l ly is perm i t ted, provided a paymen ts license is ob ta ined f r om the B ank of Japan; the vo lume of gold bu l l ion impo r ts may, however, be restricted at the discretion of the au thor i t ies if it reaches a level that would resu lt in a d is rup t ive i n f l u e n ce on i n t e r n a t i o n al gold ma rke ts. Impo r ts of other gold b u l l i o n, gold coins, and articles of gold are f ree ly perm i t ted, sub ject on ly to v e r i f i c a t ion by a fore ign exchange b a n k. Travelers ( re s ident or non- res iden t) are freely permitted to b r ing in up to one k i log ram of gold bullion a person a t r ip and up to the equ iva lent of US$1,000 in articles of gold and gold coins. Gold b u l l i o n, gold co ins, and ar t ic les of gold acquired by dona t ion or inher i tance may be impor ted f ree ly, subject on ly to verification by the customs authorities. Exports of gold bu l l ion, gold coins, and articles of gold by res iden ts requ i re licenses f rom the M in i s t er of Finance; exports of gold bu l l ion are not no rm a l ly perm i t ted. Changes during 1976 January 1. Export res tra int was imposed on steel sh ipmen ts to the EEC. Such shipments wou ld be l im i ted to 1.22 m i l l ion tons d u r i ng 1976. January 5. Foreign banks in Japan were permitted to increase the ou ts tand ing total of the ir conversions of fo re ign currencies into yen. February 7. Import duties on certain s i lk items, which had been un i la te ra l ly reduced in November 1972 by the Temporary Ta r i ff Measures Law, were restored to previ- ous levels as fo l lows: for s i lk ya rn f r om 6.0 to 7.5 per cent; for certain mixed s i lk-syn the t ic woven fabr ics f rom 10.0 to 12.5 per cent; for other s i lk woven fab r ics f rom 8.0 to 10.0 per cent; and for spun s i lk ya rn, other than noil, f rom 12.0 to 15 per cent. February 26. Impo rt of s i lk y a rn was made subject to prior no t if ica t ion. April 1. Inward direct inves tment in the data process- ing indus try, i n c l u d i ng the compu ter sof tware indu s t ry, was f u l ly liberalized. 272 April 10. J a p an and the R epub l ic of Korea concluded a one -year agreement designed to s tab i l ize t rade between Korea and J a p an in raw s i lk, th rown s i lk, and silk fabrics. April 23. Japanese banks were in fo rm ed that they shou ld l im it the ir ac t iv i t ies abroad to areas invo lv ing f i n a n c i al or re la ted services when inve s t ing in fore ign companies in order to control these or to participate pos i t ive ly in the ir m an ag em en t. Japanese banks were also requ ired to subm it r egu l ar reports to the M in i s t ry of F inance on the f i n a n c i al s t and ing of the ir overseas sub- s id ia r ie s. Japanese banks ho ld ing equ i ty in excess of 50 per cent in overseas jo int ven tu res were requ ired to s u bm it de ta i led manage r ial and f i n a n c i al s ta temen ts to the M in i s t ry of F inance. May 1. The comp le t ion of the l ibe ra l iza t ion program for inw a rd d irect fo re ign inves tment was announced, w i th the decon t rol of two more indu s t r i es ( f r u it ju ices and pho tog raph ic sensitized m a t e r i a l s ). One hundred per cent fo re ign owne r sh ip wou ld hence fo r th be per- m i t t ed in a ll sectors except ( 1) ag r icu l tu re, fo re s t ry, and f isher ies; (2) the o il indus tr ies; ( 3) the m i n i ng indus try; and (4) the lea ther indu s t ry. In the m i n i ng indus t ry, po r t fo l io inves tment wou ld be au toma t ica l ly perm i t ted up to 50 per cent, wh i le inve s tmen ts in the other excepted indu s t r i es wou ld r em a in sub ject to case-by-case screening. May 20. The Bank of Japan in t roduced a system for accepting accommoda t ion d ra f ts for yen-denominated export usance b i l ls. It was designed to accelerate the c i r cu l a t ion of yen -denom ina ted export b i l ls. May 23. Japan and the People's Republic of China concluded a one-year agreement designed to stabilize t rade between these two coun t r ies in raw s i lk, th rown s i lk, and s i lk fab r ics. June 15. It was announced that as f r om Ju ly 1 the fo l low ing gu ide l ines shou ld, in pr inc ip le, be applied to o f f ic ia l ly supported export credits: m i n im um interest rates on loans over five years were set at 8 per cent for exports to h igh - income countries, 7.75 per cent for exports to middle-income countries, and 7.5 per cent for exports to low-income countries. M i n im um interest rates for loans of two to five years' ma tu r i ty were set at 7.75 per cent for high-income countries and 7.25 per cent for exports to other countries. M ax imum lending periods were set at 5 or Sl/2 years for high-income coun- tries, Sl/2 years for middle-income countries, and 10 years for low-income countries. M i n im um downpay- men ts were set at 15 per cent of the export contract value. June 23. The period d u r i ng which the Japan Raw Silk Corpora t ion wou ld act as sole impor ter of raw silk was extended u n t il fu r ther notice. June 24. The basic exchange allocation for travel abroad was raised f rom US$1,500 to US$3,000 a per- son a t r ip. Also, the amount of yen that resident or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution non re s ident trave lers may take out f r e e ly was increased from ¥30 ,000 to ¥ 100,000. June 24. Res ident ho ld ings in foreign exchange accounts w i th b a n ks in Japan were f ree ly p e rm i t t ed up to US$20,000 per cus tomer per b ranch, or up to the average ba lances be tween October and December 1973 for holdings in excess of US$20,000. Prev ious ly, they were l im i t ed to US$10,000 a cus tomer or the ave rage balances m en t ion ed, and the open ing of a new account had been v i r t u a l ly p roh ib i ted since F eb ru a ry 26, 1974. June 24. The am o u nt wh ich res iden ts may f r e e ly and at any t ime rem it abroad was raised f rom US$200 to US$1,000 a rem i t tance. June 30. Japan i n f o rm ed the OECD of the w i t h- drawal of its reserva t ions to the Code of L ibe ra l iza t ion of Cap i tal Movemen ts on both i nw a rd and ou twa rd por tfo l io inve s tment in quo ted and u n q u o t ed secu r i t ies and on inwa rd and ou tw a rd sho r t - te rm and m e d i um- term export and impo rt usance cred i ts. July 31. Exports of spec ia l ty steel to the U n i t ed States became subject to l icen s ing. They wou ld be limited to 66,400 short tons in 1976 but a n n u al increases in vo lume of 3 per cent would be permitted in 1977 and 1978. August 1. J a p an and the EEC entered i n to an agree- ment l im i t i ng exports of specified tex t i les to the EEC du r ing the period th rough December 31, 1977. September 1. The M i n i s t ry of F inance revoked its ins truc t ion to commerc ial b anks to r e f r a in f r om f inanc- ing "nonu rgen t" inve s tment projects abroad. September 8. Measures designed to remove obstacles to the w ider use of yen in t r ade financing we re JAPAN a n n o u n c e d. The B a nk of Japan wou ld, f rom Novem- ber 1, accept accommoda t ion d r a f ts for yen -denom ina ted impo rt u sance b i l l s, to f a c i l i t a te the smoo th c i rcu la t ion of impo rt b i l ls in the m a rk e t. Such d r a f ts had previously ex is ted for export b i l ls and domestic comme rc ial bills. The B ank also wou ld cons ider f lex ib le t rea tment w i th respect to w i n d ow gu idance for bank l end ing whe re import f i n a n c i ng was sh if ted f r om fo re ign currency to yen. The M i n i s t ry of F inance wou ld give due cons id- e r a t ion to yen impo rt f inanc ing when dec id ing on the l im i ts on b ank l e n d i ng to i n d i v i d u al cus tomers. The G o v e r nm e nt announ c ed that it wou ld cons ider ex tend ing the f o u r -m o n th l i m it on im p o rt usance credits for impo r ts d enom in a t ed in yen. October 13. The issu ing of yen bonds on the Japanese cap i tal ma rket by fo r e ign borrowers began to be au tho- r ized more f r e q u e n t l y. November 11. J a p an no t i f ied the EEC that it wou ld v o l u n t a r i ly res t r ict steel expor ts u n t il the end of 1977. November 15. Re s t r ic t ions imposed as f r om Augu st 1974 on m e d i um - t e rm and long- term loans in fo re ign currency gran ted by Japanese banks to overseas borrow- ers were eased. As be fo re, however, new l e n d i ng was sub ject to gove rnment app rova l. November 15. The Gov e rnm ent announced that in f u t u re the B a nk of J a p an cou ld, in the l ight of ma rket cond i t ion s, impose reserve requ i remen ts on fo re ign exchange b ank s' fo re ign cu r rency l i ab i l i t i es to non- res iden ts and on res iden ts' fo re ign cu r rency deposits w i th fo re ign exchange b ank s. Gua ran tees in fo re ign cu r renc ies wou ld not be sub ject to reserve requ i remen t s. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar, and Jordan avails itself of w ider margins. Since February 1975, the exchange ra te for the d inar has been maintained on the basis of JD 0.387 = SDR 1. On December 31, 1976, the Central Bank of Jordan's buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar were US$3.03 and US$3.01 per J D 1, and those for s ter l ing were <£ stg. 1.77 and <£ stg. 1.75 per JD I .1 The buy ing and se l l ing rates quoted by the commercial banks for these and other currencies must be based on the spot rates quoted by the Central B a n k; as a result, no fo rwa rd exchange transac t ions take place. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of Vio of 1 per cent is levied on exchange perm i ts approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except impo r ts of government depa r tmen ts and ce r ta in other approved in s t i tu t ion s. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in i s t e r ed by the Foreign Exchange Control Depa r tment of the Cen t ral Bank of Jo rdan, which also issues exchange p e rm i t s; the Cen t ral Bank has, however, delegated to au tho r ized banks the issuance of exchange perm i ts for import paymen ts and, up to a pe rm i t ted a n n u al l im i t, for p aym en ts for educa- t ional expenses of Jo rdan ians s tudy ing abroad and for va r ious other purposes. An Impo rt Comm i t tee com- p r i s ing represen ta t ives of the M in i s t r ies of I n d u s t ry and Trade and of F inance and Customs and the Cen t ral Bank presents f rom t ime to t ime suggestions and recom- m end a t ions conce rn ing changes in impo rt policy to the M in i s ter of Indu s t ry and Trade. In add i t ion, an Eco- nomic Secur i ty Comm i t tee is empowe red to am end exist- ing regu la t ions or issue new ones conce rn ing any aspect of Jordan's economic policies when th is is considered necessary to the n a t i o n al in teres t. Prescription of Currency All se t t lemen ts in respect of t rade w i th Egypt must be made in pounds s ter l ing th rough c lea r ing accounts under a special b i la te ral p aym en ts a r r a n g em e nt w i th th at coun t ry. Payments to other coun t r ies may be made in any currency. Proceeds f rom exports (except those of perishable goods and those of J o r d a n i an goods up to JD 5,000 per transac t ion to ne ighbo r ing A rab coun t r ies or up to JD 500 to other coun t r ie s) and inv is ib les must be collected, and su r rende red whe re requ i red, in any conver t ib le cu r rency th rough an au tho r i z ed bank in Jordan or in Jo rdan d in a rs f r om a n o n r e s i d e nt account w i th an au thor ized bank in Jo rdan. 1 In add i t ion to U.S. dollars and pounds s t e r l i n g, the C e n t r al Bank m a in t a ins o f f ic ial quo ta t ions for Be lg ian f r a n c s, deu t sche m a r k, F r en ch f ranc s, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, Swed ish k r o n e r, and Swiss f ranc s. 274 Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonres ident accounts in domestic currency. These accounts must be fed with approved f u n d s; the approval of the Central Bank is necessary for t rans fe rs f rom resident to nonresident accounts, but t ran s fe rs between nonres ident accounts are pe rm i t ted f ree ly. In add i t ion, nonresidents, inc lud ing Jo rdan ians wo rk ing abroad, may freely open interest- bea r ing fo re ign cu r rency accounts w i th authorized banks; balances on these accoun ts may be w i thd r awn free ly in conver t ib le currency, wh i le the interest ra te is fixed in accordance w i th rates p reva i l ing in in t e rn a t ion al markets. Imports and Import Payments Imports of ce r ta in i t em s2 f rom any source, some impo r ts f rom Roman ia, and a ll impo r ts f rom Israel and Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. All other impor ts, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the export- ing coun t r ies (i .e ., ag r icu l tu ral products f r om neigh- bo r ing c o u n t r i e s ), requ i re im p o rt l icenses if the ir c. & f. v a lue is JD 100 or more. These are g ran ted f ree ly by the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry and Trade, except for certain i tems 3 wh ich are sub ject to s c ru t iny by the M in is ter of I n d u s t ry and Trade (whose p r ior app roval is also requ i red for impo r ts of indu s t r i al m a ch in e ry and of all m a t e r i a ls needed for the e s tab l i shment or expans ion of an i n d u s t r i al f i rm) or s c r u t i ny by the compe tent m in is t ry. Impo r te rs of tea and ce r ta in o ther goods must obtain a spec if ied m i n i m um p ropo r t ion of t h e ir requ i remen ts f r om I n d i an sources. Impo r ts t h at r equ i re an impo rt l icense also requ i re an exchange p e rm it wh ich is g ran ted a u t om a t i c a l ly when an im p o rt license has been ob ta ined; the impo r ter ho ld ing an exchange p e rm it may e i ther open a le t ter of cred it or pay ag a in st do cum en t s. A fee of 1io of 1 per cent is levied on exchange pe rm i ts for impo r ts, except those made by gove rnment depa r tmen ts and ce r ta in approved i n s t i t u t i o n s. The use of supp l iers' credit is subject to pr ior Cen t ral Bank app rova l, wh ich no rma l ly is given for essen t ial impo r ts only. Most impo r ted commod i t ies are sub j e ct to an im p o rt d u ty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. va lue, payab le on the issue of the impo rt license. In add i t ion, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the du ty -pa id value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the deve lopment of c e r t a in pub l ic f a c i l i t i e s. 2 These i n c l u de ca rbon ic ac id; a r a k; alcohol; nona lcoho l ic beverages; d ie se l -eng ined ca rs, t r u c k s, and buses; and m i l i t a ry u n i f o rm s. Ce r ta in of these commod i t i es may be im p o r t e d, how ev e r, f r om A r ab Common M a r k et c o u n t r i es a nd f r om c o u n t r i es w i th wh ich t r a de ag r e em en ts a re in fo r c e. Im p o r ts of ba r ley, l en t i l s, olives, olive oil, and some other a g r i c u l t u r al commod i t ies a re p roh ib i ted in good c rop yea r s. 3 These i tems on the "res tr ic ted list" i n c l u de ghee, m a r g a r i n e, and o ther v eg e t ab le f a t s; toma to j u i c e; s a c ch a r in; D u l c i n; p e c t in; pe t ro leum p r o d u c ts ( e x c e pt a v i a t i on f u e l ); d e t e r g e n t s; s u p e r p h o s p h a t e s; cemen t; t a n n ed l e a t h e r; am u s em e nt m a ch in e s; b l a n k e t s; woo len rug s; d ry b a t t e r i e s; s h a v i ng lo t ion; and too thp a s t e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Rem i t tances by postal order do not requ i re exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a mon th (JD 50 a person a mon th for Kuwa i t ). With this exception, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Paymen ts for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain l im i ts: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign na t iona ls who in tend to re tu rn to the ir own countries; rem i t tances to residents' dependents; reason- able l iv ing expenses of Jo rdan ian na t iona ls abroad; expenses of Jo rdan ian residents traveling abroad; ex- penses for educa t ion; expenses for medical t rea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and in su r an ce paymen ts in accordance w i th special regulations .4 The exchange a l lowance for business and tour ist travel is the equ iva lent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for ch i l- dren under 18). These allowances are granted for one or more trips once a year. For f am i ly suppo r t, an a n n u al allowance of JD 5,000 for each benef ic iary is permitted, once a year; however, r em i t t an c es by postal order may be made for amoun ts not exceed ing the equ iva lent of JD 10 a mon th to any one person res ident abroad (JD 50 a mon th for K uw a i t) and are not sub ject to th is ceiling. The policy in respect of p aym en ts for inv is ib les is, in gene ra l, l ibe ral and n o n d i s c r im i n a t o r y. In practice, the Cen t ral Bank does not res tr ict rem i t tances of income accru ing to non res iden ts or of sav ings of fo re ign nationals r e t u r n i ng to the ir own coun t ry. In add i t ion to any t ravel a l lo c a t ion, re s iden ts t r a v e l i ng abroad may take out up to JD 300 in any comb ina t ion of Jo rd an i an and fo re ign no tes and co ins. Fu r the rmo re, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of c red it issued by au tho r ized b a n ks in Jo rdan in accordance w i th exchange pe rm i ts au tho r ized by the Cen tral Bank. Tourists and o ther non r e s id en ts may also take out fo re ign cu r rency notes and co ins and any other fore ign means of payment that they had previously brought in and dec lared upon en t ry to the customs au thor i t ies and t h at had been en te red in t h e ir passports by the la t te r. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted. Export proceeds must be collected and the f o r e i gn exchange surrendered w i th in six mon ths of sh ipm en t. Exempt are the proceeds f r om pe r i shab le vege tab les and f r u i t s, and proceeds up to JD 5,000 f rom exports of Jo rdan ian products to ne ighbor ing A rab coun tr ies or up to JD 500 f rom such expor ts to o ther coun t r ies. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange rece ip ts f r om i n v i s i b l es mu st be surrendered to an au tho r i z ed b ank or, if b a n k n o t es and JORDAN travelers checks are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers en ter ing Jordan may b r ing in any amount in Jordan ian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resi- dent in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to su r render to an au thor ized bank any fo re ign currency at his disposal. Capital Cap i tal may be impor ted freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not norma l ly allowed, with the fo l low ing exception. The Central Bank is prepared to exam ine applications by banks, insurance compan ies, i n d u s t r i al or t r ad ing f irms, and contractors for permission to t ran s fer f u n ds abroad for specified inv e s tm ent or ope ra t ing purposes. Cu r rent income result- ing f rom non r e s id ent inves tmen ts in Jordan may be t r an s f e r r ed ab road. Under the Law for the Encourage- m ent of Inv e s tm en t, wh ich took effect on October 16, 1972, prof i ts f rom approved fo re ign inves tmen ts may be r em i t t e d, w i thout l im i t a t i o n, in any convertible cur- rency approved by the Central Bank. A f ter two years, r e p a t r i a t i on of the cap i tal is pe rm i t ted in three equal a n n u al in s t a l lm en ts in any convertible currency approved by the Cen t ral Bank. The Inv e s tm ent Comm i t tee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are g ran ted accord ing ly. The Compan ies Reg is tra t ion Law (Law No. 46 of 1975) prov ides va r ious benefits for f o r e i gn compan ies e s tab l i sh ing branches in Jordan for the purpose of c o n d u c t i ng bus iness outside the c o u n t r y; such b ranches may also be gran ted non res ident s t a tus for exchange con trol purposes. P r em ium Devel- o pm e nt Bonds d e n om i n a t ed in J o r d a n i an d in a rs may be pu rchased w i th conve r t ib le cu r renc ies by non re s iden t s; m a t u r i ty proceeds, p r em ium s, and interest are trans- f e r ab le in U.S. do l l a rs at the o f f i c i al ra te of exchange. Gold The Cen t ral Bank has issued four gold co ins under the Gold and Silver Co ins Regu la t ion No. 61 of 1968; these coins, a l though legal tender, do not circulate and are a v a i l a b le on ly to non res iden ts and domes t ic num i sma- t is ts. Res iden ts may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jo rd an for n um i sm a t ic or i n v e s tm e nt purposes. With th is excep t ion, residents other than the monetary a u t h o r i t i es and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users a re no t, in p r inc ip le, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other th an jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Licenses for impor ts of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the M in i s t ry of Indu s t ry and Trade on the recommenda t ion of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any fo rm r equ i re a license f rom the Central Bank. Licenses are not norma l ly granted except for 4 All insurance must be taken out in J o r d a n, but exchange is g r an t ed for prem iums in respect of in su rance con t rac ts concluded prior to May 1965. 5 No approval is given for the c red i t ing of such Jo rd an i an cu r rency to a nonresident account or for the rem i t tance abroad of the equivalent in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c y. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN impor ts and exports by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry authorities and indus t r ial users. Changes during 1976 February 5. The p en a l ty of 20 per cent of the c . i . f. value (7 per cent for indu s t r ial raw m a t e r i a l s) imposed on most goods impor ted via ports o ther th an Aqaba was suspended un t il December 31, 1976. The pena l ty was abolished on August 15 by Law No. 78. February 14. Money change rs were p e rm i t t ed to deal w i th bank checks. July 10. Import du t ies on a w ide range of goods were reduced considerably. A numb er of commod i t ies were removed f rom the res tr ic ted impo rt list. August 15. Impor ts va lued at less than JD 100 were exemp ted f rom impo rt l icens ing. October 30. A coopera t ion ag reement w i th the EEC was in i t ia led. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0 .103133 g ram of fine gold per Kenya Sh i l l ing. A cen t ral ra te of K Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been es tab l ished, and Kenya av a i ls itself of wider ma rg in s. The Cen t ral Bank of Kenya deals w i th the Gove rnment and w i th au thor ized banks in Tanzan ia sh i l l ings and Uganda sh i l l ings aga inst Kenya sh i l l ings at par; in p r inc ip le, the au tho r i z ed b anks also deal w i th the pub l ic in these cu r renc ies at par.1 In t r an s a c t ions w i th authorized banks, the Cen t ral B ank stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U.S. dollars and to sup- p ly U.S. do l la rs in exchange for Kenya sh i l l ing s, at rates based on the Fund's d a i ly c a l cu l a t ion of the U.S. dollar- SDR rate. The Central Bank deals w i th the Gove rnment and commerc ial banks, on the basis of the d a i ly c los ing rates in New York, in deutsche m a r k, French f r an c s, Japa- nese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds s ter l ing, and Swiss francs, and, on the basis of the ir U.S. dollar cross rates, in B u r u n di f r a n cs and Z amb i an kwacha. The Cen tral B ank does not deal in o ther fo r e ign cu r renc ie s ,2 except occasionally on behalf of the Gov e rnm en t. The Central Bank deals up to six mon ths fo rwa rd in s ter l ing and U.S. do l lars w i th comme rc ial bank s, to cover th e ir contracts w i th exporters and impo r te r s; commerc ial banks may cover their fo rwa rd exchange contracts in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds s ter l ing in outside ma rke ts. Administration of Control The M in is ter of F inance and Economic P lann ing has delegated the a dm i n i s t r a t i on of exchange con trol to the Central B a n k. Au tho r i ty for app rov ing paymen ts for imports of goods not listed in Impo rt Schedules I-IV with an invoiced va lue not exceeding K Sh 4,000, many paymen ts in respect of cu r rent inv is ib les, and some capi- tal payments to coun t r ies other t h an T an z an ia and Uganda is delegated to the au thor ized banks. Import and export controls are adm in is tered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the M i n i s t ry of Com- merce and Indu s t ry. The re spon s ib i l i ty for i s su ing impo rt and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer and exporter in Kenya be fo re orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. App l ica t ions for fo re ign exchange allocation permits for imports also must be subm i t ted to the Director of Trade and Supplies, who forwards these to the Cen tral B ank; app l ica t ions are screened by the Foreign Exchange A l loca t ion Comm i t tee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and 1 All dealings in Tanzan ia and Uganda bankno tes are suspended. 2 All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the Uganda sh i l l ing a re considered f o r e i gn cu r renc ie s. the Director of Trade and Supplies. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered w i th the Director of Trade and Supplies before shipment. The governmen t-owned Kenya Na t ional Trading Cor- poration, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of speci- fied commod i t ies, and the export of cer ta in ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies is con tro l led by State M a rk e t ing Boards. Together w i th Tanzan ia and Ug and a, Kenya is part of the East A f r i c an Commun i ty. Payments from Kenya to Tanzan ia and Uganda are free of restrictions, but the export or impo rt of Kenya b ankno t es is proh ib i ted. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to residents of countries other than Rhodesia and South A f r ica may be made in Kenya shillings to the c red it of an Ex te rnal Account in Kenya or in any fo re ign cu r rency except Rhodes ian cu r rency. Rece ip ts f r om coun t r ies other t h an Rhodesia may be ob ta ined in Kenya sh i l l ings f rom an External Account in Kenya or in any m a rk e t ab le fore ign cu r rency. A ll paymen ts and t r a n s f e rs to Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted. R em i t t a n c es to South A f r i ca also are p roh ib i ted, w i th the excep t ion of pens ions payab le by the Gov e rnm ent of K enya or by the East A f r i c an C omm u n i ty organ iza t ions. Nonresident Accounts Accoun ts in Kenya sh i l l ings held by res iden ts of coun- tries o ther than Rhodesia, South A f r ica, Tanzan ia, or Uganda with authorized banks in Kenya are, w i th exchange con t rol approval, des igna ted External Accounts. They may be cred i ted f r e e ly w i th au tho r ized paymen ts to such coun t r ies by res iden ts of K eny a, w i th t r an s f e rs f rom other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any cu r rency (o ther than Rhodes ian, South A f r ican, Tanzan ia, or Uganda c u r r e n c y) and gold by non res iden ts to authorized dealers. Ex ternal Accoun ts may be debited f ree ly for paymen ts to residents and non res iden ts. N o n t r a n s f e r a b le f u n ds of res iden ts of coun t r ies other th an Tanzan ia and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accoun ts (o ther than those in the bene f ic ial ownersh ip of res iden ts of South A f r i ca or Rhodes ia) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the K eny an Gov e rnm ent or by local au thor i t ies and o f f ic ia l ly quoted in K eny a; 3 the redemp t ion proceeds of these securities, which must have a l i fe of five years at the t ime of acqu is i t ion, are t rans fe rab le, and interest is freely t r an s f e r ab le to non res iden ts as and when it accrues. •"• Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemab le e a r l i er t h an f ive yea rs f rom the da te of acquisition. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Imports and Import Payments Some imports f rom all sources are prohibited for rea- sons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. W i th cer ta in exceptions, imports f rom Tanzania and Uganda are unres tr ic ted, but many goods imported f rom these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzan ian or Ugandan or ig in. Many goods may be f ree ly impor ted f rom other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported on ly by the Kenya Na t ional T rad ing Corporation, Ltd. These inc lude sugar, sa l t, rice, edible oils, b lanke ts, and cotton piece goods. In add i t ion to the open general impo rt license, there a re four commod i ty schedules for imports. W i th m i n or exceptions, all private sector impor ts of commod i t ies in Schedules I, II, III, and IV f r om countries other th an Tanzan ia and Uganda requ i re a fo re ign exchange alloca- tion license issued by the Director of Trade and Supplies; applications must be subm i t ted before firm orders are placed. Impor ts of goods on open general license requ i re an exchange a l loca t ion license, wh ich is given au to- ma t ica l ly, and must be preregistered w i th the Director of Trade and Supplies before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first th ree schedules requ i re a spec if ic impo rt license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been ob ta ined, for- eign exchange is g ran ted f ree ly for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quo tas re f lec t ing past impor ts for goods in Schedule II. No fo re ign exchange is g r an t ed for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific impo rt license is not requ ired but fo re ign exchange is allocated on a quo ta basis. From t ime to t ime, exemp t ions may be gran ted f r om the quo tas established under Schedules II and IV and f rom the proh ib i t ions of Schedule III. App l ica t ions for fo re ign exchange a l loca t ion licenses for impo r ts are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the am o u nt of the app l ica t ion. When an exchange a l loca t ion license has been ob ta ined f r om the Cen t ral Bank or when such a license is not requ ired, au tho r ized banks are pe rm i t ted to p rov ide exchange au tom a t i c a l ly, but not no rm a l ly pr ior to cus- toms e n t r y. Pr ior exchange con t rol app rov al must be ob ta ined for impo r ts of cap i tal goods on de fe r red pay- ment terms, and for impo r ts of m a c h i n e ry and equ ip- ment when the v a lue is requ i red to be regarded as a con t r ibu t ion towa rd cap i tal or to be accoun ted for on a loan basis. Most impor ts w i th a pro forma invo ice v a lue in excess of K Sh 20,000 are also sub ject to p re sh ipment inspection as to qua l i ty, q u a n t i t y, and price by the Gen- eral Superintendence Company ac t ing for the Cen tral Bank. A "Clean Report of F ind ings" must be ob ta ined before sh ipmen t, and au thor ized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping gua ran tees for the c lea rance of imports un t il this "Clean Report" has been received. 278 The buy ing and con f i rm ing commission w i th respect to imports in to Kenya may not exceed 3 per cent of the value of the impo r t. The interest rate on suppliers' credit normally is l im i ted to 11 per cent per annum. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all coun tr ies other than Tanzan ia and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur- rent paymen ts w i thout l im i ta t ion or up to established l im i ts; amoun ts above these l im i ts as well as other cur- rent paymen ts may be approved adm in is t ra t ive ly, and most cu r r ent paymen ts are in fact un res t r ic ted. Fees for education up to the equ iva lent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a f u ll scholastic year 4 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon p roduc t ion of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve h igher rem i t tances for bona f ide educa t ion expenses. Facilities exist whereby na t iona ls of coun t r ies other t h an Tanzan ia and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as ce r ta in categories of the se lf-emp loyed, such as doc- tors and den t is ts) for not more th an f o ur years may rem it abroad as sav ings up to 33!/3 per cent of the ir mon th ly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a m o n t h; in add i t ion, they may rem it funds to cover ma in- tenance, educa t ion expenses, etc., provided that their to tal rem i t tances i n c l u d i ng sav ings do not exceed 50 per cent of the ir mon th ly sa lar ies. Expa t r ia tes who have s tayed for over f o ur years in the Scheduled Territories 3 may con t inue to effect rem i t tances f r om salaries as above, but those who a v a il themse lves of the fac i l i t ies for r em i t t a n ce of sav ings f rom sa la r ies are not en t i t led to t r a n s f er a d d i t i o n al sav ings upon em ig ra t ion. Rem i t tances to South A f r i c a, o ther th an those of ce r ta in pensions, a re p roh ib i ted. Non re s ident i n d i v i d u al p rope r ty owne rs m ay r em it up to K Sh 20,000 of net r en t al income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net r e nt over the pe rm i t ted t r an s- fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved secu r i t ies w i th at least f ive years to m a tu r i ty, a f t er wh ich period the redemp t ion proceeds may be r em i t t ed to the non r e s id ent b e n e f i c i a r y. Real es ta te com- pan ies de r iv ing income solely f r om rent a re pe rm i t ted to t r a n s f er a n n u a l ly up to 10 per cent of the book va lue of t h e ir p rope r t ies as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is der ived f rom rent as well as o ther sources, the exchange con trol au tho r i t ies must approve the r em i t t a n ce of such incomes. The bas ic a l lowance for t r av el outside the Sched- u led Te r r i to r ies by adu l ts ho ld ing round - t r ip t icke ts is K Sh 4,000 a person ( K Sh 2,000 for ch i ld ren between 4 A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs a re not allowed to r em it any f u n ds for educa- t ion al suppo rt to s t u d e n ts at p r im a ry or seconda ry schools who we re not ab road in the 1975/76 academ ic yea r. •" Kenya 's exchange control regu la t ions d e f i ne the Schedu led Terri- to r ies as K e n y a, T a n z a n i a, and U g a n d a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA South A f r ica are not allowed. W i th the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of sav ings f rom salaries, persons leaving Kenya perma- n e n t ly may t ran s fer their assets up to the equ iva lent of K Sh 50,000 for each f am i ly u n it if they take up resi- dence in a coun try outside the Scheduled Territories; they may add i t iona l ly every 12 mon ths thereaf ter, du r- ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 f rom their Blocked Accounts. All rema in ing f u n ds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be inves ted in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become t ran s fe rab le, provided that redemption does not take place ear l ier than five years from the date of purchase. If an em ig ra t ing or repa t r ia t ing person's assets in K enya are va lued at K Sh 1 m i l l i on or more, the total assets mu st be l iqu ida ted before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed secur i t ies. There is no re s t r ic t ion on the inv e s tm ent of fo re ign f u n ds in Kenya, but to en su re ev en tu al repa tr ia t ion it is necessary to obtain f rom the Treasury a "certificate of approved en terpr ise" for the inv e s tm en t. Foreign and domes t ic i n v e s tm e nt in specified types of produc t ion ^ONStf^S •HBfcWJ'fck W*iRX ^W^ ^Jtfb 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, wh ich may be taken out in foreign banknotes.0 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic t ravel a l lowance of K Sh 2,000 for adu l ts and K Sh 1,000 for ch i ld r en. The basic allowance is not ava i lab le for travel to Rhodesia or South Afr ica. There is a pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adu l ts, which is ava i lab le o n ly to persons who have not utilized the basic t ravel a l lowance w i th in the preceding two years. Nonres ident trave lers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon en t ry. Res iden ts of Kenya t r av e l ing abroad on in te rna t ional f l igh ts and ho ld ing r e tu rn tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 w i th them for local expenses on re turn, but otherwise the export of Kenya bankno tes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions must be registered w i th the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of certain foods tuffs and ag r icu l tu ral products requ ire licenses and may be sub ject to res tr ic- tion in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consump- tion in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain m ine ra l s, precious stones, and strategic ma te r ia ls are also subject to licens- Yft£. Y^pofv \icemes IDT some commoftvues are required only for de s t ina t ions other t h an T an z an ia or U g a n d a. Other goods may be exported w i thout licenses. Exports of coffee are made th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of the Coffee M a r k e t i ng Board. A ll expor ts to Rhode s ia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Export proceeds in fo re ign currencies mu st be col- lected w i th in three mon ths of expo r ta t ion and offered to an au tho r ized b ank in Kenya for conve rs ion i n to K e n ya shillings.7 Exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed goods to coun t r ies other than Tanzan ia and Uganda are e l ig ib le for spe- c ial in c en t iv e s. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fore ign cu r renc ies must be sold to an au thor ized bank. Persons not resident in Kenya, Tanzan ia, or Ug anda mu st settle hotel b i l ls in foreign cu r rency or aga in st an E x t e r n al A c coun t. Trave l- ers may br ing in freely fore ign cu r rency notes. The impo rt of domes t ic bankno tes is p roh ib i ted, w i th the excep t ion t h at re s iden ts r e t u r n i ng to K e n ya m ay b r i ng in up to K Sh 100 p rev iou s ly t a k en out by them se lve s. The import of Tanzan ia and Uganda notes also is p roh ib i ted. Capital Capital t r an s f e rs to a ll c o u n t r i es other t h an T a n z a n ia and Uganda are restricted. T rans fe rs to Rhodesia or KENYA require specific import licenses as Schedule III items and no foreign exchange is allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1976 January. With effect f rom the academic year 1916/11, the exchange allowance for education abroad was increased f rom K S hi 4,000 to K Sh 24,000. Autho- rized dealers were not allowed to rem it any funds for educa t ional support to students at p r ima ry or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975/76 academic year. July 26. Exchange Control Notice No. 10/1976 extended the import licensing and inspection require- ments to the East A f r i c an Commun i ty and its cor- porations. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the Korean Won has been estab- lished w i th the Fund. The exchange ra te is m a in- ta ined around W 484 per US$1. On December 31, 1976 the buy ing and se l l ing rates of the B ank of Korea for the U.S. do l lar were W 483.10 and W 484.90, respec- tively, per US$1, and the te legraph ic t r an s f er buy ing and se l l ing ra tes of the fo re ign exchange banks were W 4 83 and W 485, respectively, per US$1. Exchange ce r t i f ica tes v a l id for 30 days may be issued by the fo re ign exchange b anks aga inst a ll fo r e ign exchange e a r n i n gs in prescr ibed cu r renc ies su r rende red by res iden ts. In practice, most fo r e ign exchange pro- ceeds are exchanged for won at the b u y i ng ra te posted by the fo re ign exchange bank s. Exchange ce r t i f ica tes may be changed in to equ iv a l ent fo re ign means of pay- men t. There is a l im i t ed fo rw a rd exchange ma rket restricted to exporters cover ing the ir export ea rn ing s. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of F inance is in charge of exchange control. It carr ies out policy w i th respect to prescrip- tion of cu r rency and method of se t t lemen t, fore ign exchange ope ra t ions, p aym en ts for nonme rchand ise transac t ions, and cap i tal t ran sac t ions and t r an s f e r s. It also prepares and a dm i n i s t e rs the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amoun ts of fo r e ign exchange that may be used in each period. The Bank of Korea, as the Governmen t's agent, executes the above f u n c t i o ns in large pa r t; it regulates opera t ions in the exchange ma rket and is authorized to in te rvene in it. The Bank has also been delegated au tho r i ty to con trol paymen ts related to invisibles and cer ta in cap i tal t ransac t ions. The fo re ign exchange bank s, as well as the b ranch offices in Korea of fo re ign banks, are au tho r ized to engage in com- mercial in t e rn a t ion al b a n k i ng and in specified fo re ign exchange dealings. The trade program for impo r ts financed f r om Korea's own fo re ign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Imports financed by fo re ign loans are p rog rammed separately by the Economic P l ann ing Board in consu l ta t ion w i th the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Impo rt licenses are issued by the fo re ign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun tr ies are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 The 1 Au s t ra l ian dollars, A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r a n c s, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu tsche m a r k, French f r an c s, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian l i r e, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds sterling, Saudi A r a b i an r iya ls, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. dollars. methods of payment on account of other settlements requ i re the app roval of the Bank of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Non re s iden t s, i n c l u d i ng Korean workers abroad, may m a i n t a in fo re ign cu r rency deposit accounts w i th fore ign exchange banks. Rem i t tances f r om such accounts and w i thd r aw a ls in the fo rm of cu r rency notes upon depar- tu re f r om Korea may, in genera l, be made f ree ly. The app roval of the bank where the account is held is required for rem i t tances f r om ba lances that have accrued f r om r em u n e r a t i on for services in Korea, f a r es paid for travel by air or ship, or in su r an ce p rem iums received in Korea, or f rom exchange deposited in accordance w i th a decision of the M in i s t ry of F inance (except exchange reg is tered at the customs on en t ry or rem i t ted f rom a b r o a d ). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a fo re ign exchange bank at the p reva i l ing exchange rate, and they may be debited for sa lary paymen ts to fo r e ign employees. Foreign res iden ts and non res iden ts ( in c lud ing Korean wo rke rs ab road) are pe rm i t ted to hold demand, notice, and t ime deposit accounts in prescribed currenc ies w i th fo re ign exchange banks. Ce r ta in residents of Korean n a t ion a l i ty, such as the a i r l ine and some in su r an ce companies, as well as enter- prises in which fo re ign capital is invested, may ma in ta in demand deposit accounts in fore ign currencies with fo re ign exchange banks. Compan ies registered to operate in the Masan and Iri Free Export Zones also may m a i n t a in demand deposit accounts in fo re ign cu r- rencies w i th the fo r e ign exchange bank w i t h in the zones. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports requ i re licenses; for cer ta in imports (see be low) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods o r ig in a t ing in the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, North Korea, or Viet Nam and for certain impo r ts f rom a ll other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for w i th Korean fo re ign exchange (KFX impo r t s) and those paid for w i th foreign loan fund s. KFX imports are classified as au toma t ic approva l, res tr ic ted, or pro- hibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., app l ica t ions for impo rt licenses are au toma t ica l ly approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or pro- h ib i ted commodities, subject to the general l im i ts set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand P lan. Auto- ma t ic approval i tems (on December 31, 1976 these were 669 out of 1,312 basic items in the S tandard Inter- na t ional Trade Classification —SITC) consist m a i n ly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and cer ta in raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods. Restricted 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA items (579) in a negative list are subject to ind iv idual licenses. Prohibited items (64) are ma in ly luxu ry goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw ma te r ia ls for the production of exports are normally approved au toma t ica l ly, irrespective of the ir classification. Import licenses are granted on ly to registered traders; to m a in t a in the status of a registered trader, a m i n im um va lue of US$1 million of exports is required each year for o rd ina ry exporters. The commercial terms of payment on wh ich impor ts may be contracted are regu la ted, and advance impo rt deposits are required for most types of goods impor ted by the private sector. These are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of local currency at the t ime of open ing the letter of credit in the case of impo r ts on letters of credit, and for imports not on letters of credit, at the t ime of app ly ing for import licenses. Advance deposits are re ta ined un t il the bill of lad ing is released. Advance deposits for KFX imports range between zero and 200 per cent accord ing to the n a t u re of the import and the commercial terms of payment (s ight letter of credit (sight L / C ), deferred letter of credit (usance L / C ), documents against acceptance ( D / A ), or documents against payment (D / P) t e rm s ). The customs ta r i ff is a "flexible" t a r i f f. Fu r the rmo re, the Gove rnment may alter impo rt du ty rates adm in i s- t ra t ive ly by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has au tho r i ty to impose impo rt surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all du t iab le impo r ts, but by the end of 1976 had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 per cent ad va lo rem is levied on most goods, whe ther loca l ly produced or impo r ted. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for invisibles requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses. Paymen ts for inv is ib les connected w i th fo re ign t rade t ran sac t ions and for ce r ta in o ther i tems such as bank- ing charges, in su r an ce p rem ium s, c omm u n i c a t i on fees, and periodicals are licensed au toma t ica l ly. There are ce r ta in s tanda rd a l loca t ions for business t rave l. In add i t ion, exporters are au thor ized to use ce r ta in exchange ea rn ings for the expenses of t h e ir overseas branches. Residents d ep a r t ing for t ravel abroad may purchase fore ign exchange up to the equ iv a l ent of US$100 a day or up to US$1,300 as a mon th ly a l low- ance for l iv ing expenses; they may purchase a d d i t i o n al fore ign exchange for each t r ip for extra expenses. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and fore ign currency notes may not be exported w i thout special permission. Nonresidents must register fo r e ign exchange in specified currenc ies that they b r i ng in to Korea if the amount exceeds the equ iva lent of US$10,000 and, when depa r t ing, may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$300, sub ject to conf irma t ion of the or ig inal sale of exchange (up to US$100 w i thout such con f i rm a t ion ). 282 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to certain specified countries designated by the Government are prohibited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports on a restricted list require ind iv idual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an au toma t ic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Exporters are not permitted to retain their export proceeds as fore ign currency demand or time deposits w i th fo re ign exchange banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived f r om invisibles must either be sold to a fore ign exchange bank for won or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. Travelers may bring w i th them any amount of fore ign exchange, but the impo rt of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 by t rave le rs is restricted. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign cap i tal inves tmen t, loans f rom abroad, and imports of cap i tal goods on a long- term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repa tr ia t ion under the Foreign Cap i tal Inducement Law. No limits are placed on the conversion and rem i t tance of legitimate profits and dividends, or on the repa tr ia t ion of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic P lann ing Board 90 days pr ior to the end of the fiscal year. Gold Cer ta in commemo ra t ive gold coins are legal tender but do not c ircu la te. Residents may free ly buy, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Korea. Imports and expor ts of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry con- s t i t u t i ng the personal e f fec ts of a t rave ler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea; such licenses are not no rm a l ly g ran ted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and autho- r ized i n d u s t r i al users. Domes t ica l ly produced gold may be disposed of in the f ree ma rke t. The f ree ma rket price at public gold auc t ions was about W 2,651 a g ram at the end of 1976. Changes during 1976 January 1. The t rade p rog ram for the first half of 1976 came in to e f fec t. It provided for a net import l ib e r a l i z a t ion of US$49.9 m i l l ion in te rms of 1974 impo r ts, w i th a s h i ft of some US$67.5 m i l l ion f r om the restricted impo rt l icens ing category to the au toma t ic app roval list, and one of some US$17.6 m i l l ion in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution opposite direction. Certain restraints on exports were to be lifted. The M in is try of Commerce and Indus t ry was given additional powers to adm in is ter the country's trade policy. January 1. For the first ha lf of 1976 ta r i ff rates on 22 items were temporar i ly ad jus ted. The t a r i f fs on 6 items were lowered, while those on 16 items were raised. January 2. A partial and selective ta r i ff exemption system was introduced w i th rates of exemp t ion to be designated by the M in i s t ry of Finance. January 3. The tax exemp t ion and reduc t ion con- tro l l ing law was amended to exempt branches of fo re ign banks f rom corporate tax when they act as brokers in transactions for Korea. March 12. Seven import i tems and one sub i tem corresponding to US$229 m i l l i on in terms of 1974 imports were t ran s fe r red f rom the restricted impo rt licensing category to the au toma t ic approval l is t, and one basic item and one sub i tem correspond ing to US$7 m i l l ion were t r an s f e r r ed f rom the au toma t ic approval list to the restricted schedule. March 31. An add i t ional advance impo rt depos it of 5 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit was required when open ing a le t ter of credit sub ject to con- f i rma t ion by a fo re ign b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i o n. May 11. The 60 to 90 day m i n im um re ten t ion period for advance import deposits when the goods are imported on a sight L/C or on a D/P basis was abolished for most impo rt categories. May 18. A 5 per cent advance impo rt deposit requ i rement was imposed for impo r ts of raw ma te r ia ls for export processing when those impo r ts are on a D /A or usance L /C basis. June 4. The advance import deposit required for imports for domes t ic use was inc reased by 20 percentage points, to a range of 25-60 per cen t, when the settle- ment period exceeds 90 days a f t er s igh t, and the deposit for raw ma te r ia ls for export process ing was raised to 15 per cent when the s e t t l em ent period exceeds 120 days. For c e r t a in impo rt categories, an additional deposit of 10 per cent was r equ i r ed if the f inanc ing was provided by a c o u n t ry o ther t h an the exporting na t ion. June 17. Korea jo ined w i th Bang lade sh, I n d i a, and Sri Lanka in im p l em e n t i ng the Bangkok A g r e em e nt for m u t u al p r e f e r en t i al t a r i f fs cuts. The average cut in ta r i f fs was between 25 and 50 per cent and some US$25 m i l l ion of a n n u al t rade wou ld be a f fec ted. June 28. The M i n i s t ry of Comme rce and I n d u s t ry issued regu la t ions s t i p u l a t i ng m i n i m um pe rcen tages for the use of Korean-produced e q u i pm e nt in new invest- ment p ro jec ts in spec if ied indu s t r i e s. July 1. The Ko rean Expo r t - Impo rt Bank severed its ties w i th the Korea Exchange Bank and began to operate independen t ly w i th an au tho r ized cap i tal of W 1 50 b i l l ion prov ided by the Gove rnmen t, the Bank of Korea, and the Korea Exchange Bank. KOREA July 1. The trade program for the second half of 1976 came in to effect. Three import items w i th a 1974 import va lue of US$0.1 m i l l ion were transferred f rom the prohibited or restricted lists to the automatic approval category, wh i le two import items correspond- ing to US$9.2 m i l l i on were t rans fe r red f r om the auto- matic approval category to the restricted schedule. July 1. The Saudi A rab ian r iyal was added to the l ist of prescribed currencies. July 1. The ce i l ing on the payments of em ig ra t ion expenses was raised to US$2,000 for adu l ts and US$1,000 for children under 14 years old. July 1. Nonres iden ts impo r t ing or acqu i r ing in Korea fore ign currency equ iva lent to US$10,000 or more must register w i th foreign exchange banks or the customs office. The t ime l im it for conversion of fore ign cur- rency acqu ired by res iden ts was reduced f rom 20 to 10 days in case of cash. July 1. All res tr ic t ions on call money, call loans, and overdraf ts in fore ign cu r rency f u n ds were w i thd r awn. July 1. The interest rate on nonres ident won deposits was raised to the same level as the resident won deposit rate. Previously no interest was payable on non- res ident won deposits. July 1. Th ir ty-one selected bus iness items were posted as a l ist of types for overseas business inves tmen t. A 12 -member Overseas Inves tment Comm i tee was estab- l ished to app rove inves tmen ts. July 1. L im i ts govern ing the impo rt and export of Korean cu r rency notes were increased. No permission was requ i red for amoun ts less than W 500,000, per- m iss ion f r om the chief of the compe tent customs office was requ i red for W 500,000 to W 1 m i l l i o n, and per- mission f rom the Bank of Korea for more than W 1 m i l l ion. July 16. The f ree swap ba lances of domestic branches of fo re ign b anks were f rozen at the level of US$193 m i l l i o n. July 16. For goods for domestic use impor ted on a le t ter of credit basis, payment of the advance impo rt deposit became due when the letter of credit was opened ins tead of at the t ime of app ly ing for the import l icen se. Advance im p o rt deposit rates for such goods impo r ted on te rms of 60 days to 120 days were lowered to a range of 5-40 per cent. Prev ious ly the applicable ra tes were 100-110 per cent for goods impo r ted on te rms of less than 90 days and 5-60 per cent for goods impo r ted on te rms of 90 days or more. July 19. The con t rac t ing of fo re ign cash loans was proh ib i ted w i th the exception of short-term loans to f inance impo r ts of raw ma te r ia ls for the de fense indu s- try or pa r ts of e q u i pm e nt needed by expo rt indus t r ies and of loans w i th ma tu r i t ies exceeding three years raised to finance d ow n p a ym e n ts on imports. The M in is ter of F inance may au thor ize exceptions to this p roh ib i t ion. August 2. A timetable was established for phasing out by November a ll r em a i n i ng m i n im um re ten t ion periods for advance impo rt deposits. It was announced 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA that, a f ter November, all advance impo rt deposits would be retained only un t il the bill of lad ing was released. The advance import deposit rate for raw materials for export processing was increased to 15 per cent when the import is f inanced on terms of 120 days or less and to 25 per cent on terms of more than 120 days. August 21. The trade program for the second ha lf of 1976 was amended by t r an s f e r r ing seven import i tems with a 1974 import value of US$10.3 m i l l ion f rom the restricted import l icens ing list to the au toma t ic approval category and two import items corresponding to US$0.6 m i l l ion f rom the au toma t ic to the restricted schedules. September 23. The Economic P l ann ing Board announced a program of inves tment incentives to for- eign investors to bu i ld up cer ta in indu s t r ial areas. December 1. The trade program for the first ha lf of 1977 was announced. The net result of the several announced sh i f ts was a liberalization equ iva lent to US$6.4 m i l l ion in terms of 1975 import values. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par v a lue is 2.48828 g rams of fine gold per Kuwa i ti D ina r, co r respond ing to KD 1 = US$3.37778, and Kuw a it ava i ls itself of w ider ma rg in s. Since March 18, 1975 the exchange ra te for the K uw a i ti d i n ar has been m a i n t a i n ed on the ba s is of i ts v a l ue in t e rms of a weighted average of currencies. The Cen t ral Bank of K uw a it quo tes d a i ly b u y i ng and s e l l ing ra tes for s ter l ing and U.S. do l lars; on December 31, 1976, its rates for the U.S. do l lar were KD 0.28677 buy ing, and KD 0 .28713 selling, per US$1. On Ap r il 5, 1963, K uw a it no t i f ied the F u nd th at it was p repa red to f o rm a l ly accept the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Ag r e em en t. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and res iden ts and non- residents may f ree ly purchase and sell fore ign currenc ies in Kuw a i t. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. Gene ral and ind iv idu al impo rt l icenses are issued by the M i n i s t ry of Comme rce and I n d u s t r y. The l im i t ed con t rol over expo r ts is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the Cus toms and Ports A dm i n- i s t r a t i on of the M i n i s t ry of Commun ica t ion s. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of cu r rency requ i remen t s. A ll se t t lemen ts w i th Israe l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may free ly open accounts in K uw a i ti dinars and fo re ign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Impo rt licenses a re requ i red for a ll p r i v a te im p o r ts other t h an f o o d s t u f f s; l icenses are issued f ree ly, except for whea t, f lour, and asbestos pipe. Registered impo r t e rs hand l ing a var ie ty of commodities may ob ta in a general license va l id for one year. O ther importers must ob ta in specific licenses for ind iv idual commodities, which also are valid for one year. A ll impo r ts f rom Israel, inc lud- ing impo r ts of Is rae li m a n u f a c t u re and those that con- tain Israeli ma te r ia ls or are m a n u f a c t u r ed by compan ies f inanced by Israe li cap i ta l, and a ll impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of a few i tems (m a in ly oxygen, certain steel pipes, pork or food- stuffs con ta in ing pork, alcoholic beverages, and used trucks and buses not us ing gaso l ine for f u el and over ten years o ld) are prohibited f r om all sources. To be reg i s te red, the impo r ter must be either a K u w a i ti c i t izen or a f irm in wh ich a ll pa r tne rs are K uw a i ti n a t i o n a ls or a sha reho ld ing or l im i ted l i ab i l i ty company in wh ich Kuwa i ti na t iona ls own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial impo r ts no rma l ly are l im i t ed to registered importers. Impo r ts f r om any pe rm i t ted source may be paid for f r e e l y. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts for invisibles may be made f ree ly, except to I s rae l, Rhode s ia, and South A f r i c a. There are no l im i- t a t i o ns on the expo rt of dome s t ic or fo r e ign cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and pou l t ry and of cer ta in other i t ems (such as suga r, fa ts, rice, mea t, eggs, f ish, m i l k, cheese, b u t t e r, o l ive oil, f resh f r u i t s, vegetables in any f o rm, beans, l e n t i l s, ch ick-peas, j am s, and c em e n t) a re p roh ib i t ed in t ime of eme rgency or shortage in K uw a i t. These items may be exported in limited quan t i t ies on ly, under a special license issued by the M in is try of Com- merce and Indu s t ry. Exports of arms, amm u n i t i o n, and scrap me tal requ i re licenses. Licenses are not required for o ther expo r ts or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Rhode s ia, and South A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted. There are no r equ i r em en ts a t tached to receipts f r om expor ts or re-exports, except t h at these mu st not accrue in Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South A f r i c an rand; the proceeds need not be repa tr ia ted or su r ren- dered, and they may be disposed of free ly, regardless of the cu r rency invo lved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requ i remen ts are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Rhodes ian do l la rs, or South A f r i c an r a n d. Travelers e n t e r i ng Kuw a it m ay b r ing w i th them any am o u nt in K uw a i ti or o ther b ankno t es except in I s r a e l i, R h o d e s i a n, a nd Sou th A f r i c an cu r renc ie s. Capital There are no exchange con t rol ob l iga t ions on the t r a n s f er to K uw a it of resident or non re s ident c ap i t al in any cu r rency. Gov e rnm ent agreement is necessary for the par t ic ipa t ion of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of indus tr ies in Kuwa i t; at least 51 per cent of owne rsh ip of new Kuwa i ti companies must be held by K uw a i ti na t iona ls. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other coun tr ies except Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry may import and export gold in any fo rm, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewe lry, however, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly ha l l- marked. Kuwa i ti na t iona ls may free ly and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or depar ture, b r ing in and take out their holdings of gold in any f o rm, w i thout restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any fo rm, manufac tured or nonmanu- fac tu red, are subject to import duty at 4 per cent. Changes during 1976 February 28. All types of an im al foods tu f fs imported for consump t ion by cattle and poultry were exempted f r om customs duty. April 20. The impo r t a t ion of pork meat and lard was proh ib i ted. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. All exchange transac t ions, inc lud ing those in clearing dollars, take place at the f ree market rate, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31 ,1976 was LL 2.93 per US$1. There also exists a "moving par i ty" used for the calcula- tion of duties and taxes levied on amoun ts invoiced or expressed in fore ign currency, par t icu lar ly customs duties. There are no restrictions on fore ign paymen ts. Prescription of Currency No requirements are imposed on exchange paymen ts abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some t ransac t ions w i th certain countries w i th wh ich Lebanon has paymen ts agreements 1 spec ify ing the method or channel of pay- ment may be made th rough specific accounts denom i- nated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (m a i n ly arms and ammun i- tion, narcotics, and s im i lar p roduc ts) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Gove rnmen t. All impor ts from Israel and Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Impor ts of certain other commod i t ies ( i n c l u d i ng whea t, bar ley, beet and cane sugar, olive oil, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior l icens ing. Impo rt licenses are also required for a ll m a ch in e ry for the in s t a l l a t ion or expan- sion of m a n u f a c t u r i ng plants. All other commod i t ies may be imported f r e e ly w i thout license. Exchange to pay for impor ts may be ob ta ined f ree ly th rough the free marke t. A mun ic ipa l i t ies tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the va lue of all goods impor ted, except those of A rab origin, and a s t amp tax of 1.2 per cent is applicable to all imports except gold and bankno tes. A su rcha rge of 10 per cent of the applicable impo rt du ty is levied on specified tex t i les and ga rmen t s. Payments for Invisibles No res tr ic t ions are placed on p aym en ts for inv is ib les. Exchange may be ob ta ined f r e e ly th rough the f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (such as arms and ammun i- t ion and narcotics and s im i lar products) to any destina- t ion, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are pro- h ib i ted. Exports of certain metals and a few other items and exports valued at over LL 200 of certain other items —ma in ly livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, rice, sugar, edible oils, da iry products, canned or frozen meat, newspr in t, petroleum and petroleum products, and indu s t r ial and ag r icu l tu ral mach inery and equipment —to any coun t ry and all products in tended for export to Nor th Korea require export licenses. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be re ta ined, used, or sold free ly in the free marke t. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained, used, or sold free ly in the free market. Capital There are no l im i ta t ions on capital paymen ts or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely th rough the free marke t. Banks are prohibited f rom pay ing interest on nonresident-held deposits denom ina ted in Lebanese pounds. They have been requested not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonres iden ts unless this serves to f inance fore ign t rade transac t ions. Banks' fo re ign cu r rency credits to residents and nonresidents are sub ject to deposit requirements, and their net foreign cu r rency positions (c la ims and l iab i l i t ies separa te ly) are subject to l im i t a t ion. Gold Res iden ts may free ly hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may f ree ly negotiate gold in any fo rm w i th residents and nonres iden ts at home or abroad. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any fo rm are freely per- m i t ted and do not requ i re a license but must be off ic ia l ly recorded. The impo r t, export, and domestic sale of fo r e ign gold coins mu st be covered by a certificate indi- ca t ing the gold content and weight and issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. 1 Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, G e rm an Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, Po land, and Romania. There is also an inope ra t ive p a ym e n ts ag reement w i th Guinea. Changes during 1976 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange and Trade System Lesotho's currency is the South A f r i c an R a n d. The par va lue of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank on Decem- ber 31, 1976 quoted a m idd le exchange ra te for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currenc ies concerned aga inst the U.S. dollar. Lesotho fo rms part of the R and Mone ta ry Area, which is a single exchange control te r r i to ry comp r i s ing Lesotho, South A f r ica, and Swaz i land. The Reg is t rar of F inanc ial In s t i tu t ions in the M in i s t ry of F inance con tro ls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to paymen ts w i th in the R and Mone ta ry Area. These are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In re la t ion to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are in all ma te r ial aspects similar to those of South A f r ica and Swaz i land. Pay- ments to nonresidents for cu r rent t ransac t ions, wh i le subject to control, are not norma l ly restricted, but app l i- cations for ou tward t ran s fe rs of capital are considered on their merits. The ru l ings on app l ica t ions for inward and ou tward capital t rans fe rs may depend on whether the app l icant is a tempo ra r i ly resident fo re ign na t iona l, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to au thor ized dealers up to established l im i ts; this is t rue, for example, of the basic exchange a l lowance for tourist travel ( the equ iva lent of R 2,000 in a ca lendar year for an adu lt and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no b i la te ral payments arrangements. Lesotho is a member of a customs un ion w i th Botswana, South A f r ica, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods o r ig ina t ing in any coun try of the customs un ion. Impor ts f r om South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown q u a n t i ty of goods o r ig ina t ing outside the customs un ion; imports f rom countries of the customs un ion are recorded, however, for statistical purposes. Inso far as Lesotho imports goods direct f rom countries outside the customs un ion, such imports are usua l ly licensed in con- f o rm i ty w i th South Afr ica's impo rt regulations; Lesotho, however, reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Impo rt licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the fore ign exchange required to make the impo rt payment upon customs en t ry. Lesotho's trade l icens ing a r rangemen ts, however, are designed ma in ly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion and are con- fined in practice to exports of d iamonds; permits are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry. 288 Licenses for f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and insu rance agents are issued by the Registrar of Financial Institutions. Ce r ta in tax incen t ives for inwa rd direct inves tment are provided by the Pioneer Indu s t r ies Encouragement Act, 1969 to m a n u f a c t u r i ng ac t iv i t ies approved by a Pioneer Indus t r ies Board. Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell ce r ta in Lesotho gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1976 August 12. Res iden ts of Lesotho and Swaziland ceased to be regarded by South A f r i ca as nonresidents for purposes of secur i t ies con tro l. Accord ing ly, South A f r i c an au tho r ized banks could, upon app l ica t ion to them, cancel the res t r ic t ive endorsement on South A f r i- can securities owned on Augu st 12, 1976 by residents of Lesotho and Swaziland, provided that they satisfied themselves that the secur i t ies were not acquired outside the R a nd Mone ta ry Area a f t er J u ne 16, 1961. Subject to the same cond i t ions, securities rand ba lances held by residents of Lesotho and Swaz i land could be released (South A f r ican Exchange Control Circular No. B.176). Authorized b anks in Lesotho were s im i l a r ly advised, w i th respect to residents of Lesotho on ly, by Lesotho Exchange Control C i rcu lar No. 9 of Augu st 24. August 23. Botswana issued its own currency and w i thd rew f rom the Rand Mon e t a ry Area. A ll currency t ransac t ions between residents of Lesotho and residents of Botswana henceforth were governed by Lesotho's and South Afr ica's exchange control ru l ings. Cer ta in amend- men ts to the ru l ings became e f fec t ive on that da te. The de f in i t ion of the R and Mone ta ry Area was mod i f ied by the de le t ion of Bo tswana. The fo l low ing was announced regarding procedures that au thor ized dealers had to fo l low w i th effect f rom August 23. ( 1) Accounts of res iden ts of Botswana w i th au thor ized dealers had to be redesignated as nonresident accounts; balances on the la t ter would be t ran s fe rab le to Botswana upon app l ica t ion, but wou ld not be convertible in to any fore ign currency other than the pu la. (2) The local sale proceeds of Lesotho assets ( inc lud ing Lesotho secur i t ies) owned by residents of Botswana must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts. ( 3) Authorized dealers were advised that, before accepting pula bank- notes, they should ensure they had a repa tr ia t ion arrange- ment w i th a correspondent in Botswana. (4) Until fu r th er notice, all me rchan t ing transactions involving Botswana had to be referred to the Registrar of Financial Ins t i tu t ions. ( 5) The local bo r row ing powers of Lesotho companies owned or controlled as to 25 per cent or more by residents of Botswana would con t inue to be restricted. (Lesotho Exchange Control Circular No. 8 of August 5.) November 12, The Non-Resident Bond Regulations, 1976 (Legal Notice No. 20 of 1976) were gazetted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents of the R and Mone ta ry Area l e av ing Lesotho to take up residence ou ts ide the R a nd Mon e t a ry Area were allowed to purchase non re s ident bonds issued by the Government of Lesotho up to R 30,000 for a fam i ly un i t. These non t r an s f e r ab le bonds wou ld have a ma tu r i ty of five years f rom the da te of issue and bear interest at 5 per cent per a n n um. Both in te rest and ma tu r i ty proceeds were t r a n s f e r a b le to coun t r ies ou t s ide the Rand Mone ta ry Area. November 24. Au tho r ized dea lers were advised t h at hencefor th all fo rms of leas ing or r en t al of fixed prop- erty wou ld, as a general ru le, be regarded as local bor- rowing. For exemp t ion f r om Exchange Con t rol Regu la- tion 4 ( l ) ( f ), new contracts had to be subm i t ted to the Exchange Con tro l ler (Leso tho Exchange Con t rol C ir- cu lar No. 10 ). November 25. Au tho r ized dealers were i n f o rm ed of a commun ica t ion f rom the Bank of Bo tswana to the effect that the latter, through Botswana au thor ized deal- ers, would exchange pula notes rem i t ted by b anks in South A f r i ca w i thout l im i t a t i on (Lesotho Exchange Con- trol Circular No. 1 1 ). November 25. The superv is ion over t r an s f e rs of sav- ings by tempo ra ry residents was t igh tened. Authorized dealers were rem inded that t empo r a ry res iden ts a v a i l i ng themselves of the t r an s f er of savings f a c i l i ty wou ld not no rma l ly be pe rm i t ted to make any add i t ion al t r a n s f e rs for domestic purposes, ma in tenance paymen ts, mone ta ry gifts, p rem iums on insurance policies, or loan repay- ments (Lesotho Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar No. 1 2 ). December 15. A M anu al of Exchange Control Ru l- ings was issued. It superseded all previous ru l ings and LESOTHO incorpora ted all ins t ruc t ions con ta ined in Lesotho's exchange control c ircu lars. While not in troduc ing any new regu la t ion s, the M anu al in t roduced two new con- cepts in the ru l ings: ( 1) all residents of the Rand Mone ta ry Area were treated equally, also w i th respect to secur i t ies control; (2) the concept of temporary res ident was f u r t h er ref ined to meet the requ iremen ts of fore ign experts. December 15. The changeover f r om blocked rand to secur i t ies r and, which had been announced by South A f r i ca in December 1975, came in to effec t. Any "blocked rand" that m ight arise f rom inves tment by non- res iden ts wou ld be redesignated "securities rand"; the la t ter te rm denoted the local sale and redemption pro- ceeds of R a nd Mone ta ry Area secur i t ies and other inves tmen ts in the R and Mone ta ry Area owned by non- res iden ts, exc lud ing fo rm er residents of the Rand Mone- ta ry Area, as we ll as fo rmer Blocked Account balances of persons who had imm ig ra ted but had not yet com- pleted three years of residence in the Rand Mone ta ry Area. Em igran ts' f u n ds blocked in Lesotho con t inued to be re fe r red to as blocked rand and rema ined subject to the same res t r ic t ions as before. Au tho r ized banks were permitted to t rans fer securities rand balances from one Securities Rand Account in the ir books to ano the r, in the ir own books or in the books of ano ther au tho- rized bank. December 15. Au thor ized dealers no longer were allowed to pe rm it advance paymen ts for impor ts. Previ- ously, they could approve such paymen ts up to 40 per cent of the ex-fac tory cost of mach ine ry or equ ipment to be spec ia l ly m a n u f a c t u r ed for Lesotho impor ters. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar, and the par i ty rate for the U.S. dollar is $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along w i th Liberian coinage. There is no exchange control and there are no restric- tions on foreign exchange transac t ions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West A f r i c an States ( f or B en in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a) and The G amb i a, G h a n a, M a l i, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone a re n o rm a l ly made th rough the West A f r i c an C lea r ing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of impo rt con tro l. A few items (e.g., a rms and amm u n i t i o n, explosives, used clothing, and Pha rmaceu t ica ls) require pr ior licenses; impor ts of cement are not be ing licensed. Also, imports of ce r ta in goods (e.g., obscene l i t e r a t u r e, na rco t ics other t h an for med ic inal purposes) and a ll impor ts f r om Rhodesia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. In practice, petroleum is imported only by the Liberian R e f i n i ng Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Export licenses are requ ired for precious me ta ls, precious stones, ivory, ag r icu l tu ral products other th an rubber, and cer ta in other items, such as arms and ammun i t ion and explosives. Licenses are gene ra l ly issued f ree ly and no licenses are requ ired for direct exports by fo re ign concession holders; licenses serve m a i n ly to enforce taxa t ion or, for agr icu l tural products, to assure certifica- tion of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the L iber ian Produce Ma rke t ing Corpora- tion. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are f ree ly disposable. An export tax is levied on d iamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or non- residents. Under an Inves tment Incen t ive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973 ), enterprises unde r tak ing new inves tment projects may be gran ted a five-year 90 per cent du ty exemp t ion on impo r ts of raw ma ter ia ls and mach ine ry, total tax exemp t ion on re inves ted profits, a 50 per cent exemption on d i s t r ibu tab le profits, and a protective ta r i ff on competing impor ted products. The five-year incen t ive is eligible for a two-year renewal if e x t e n u a t i ng c ircums tances w a r r a nt i t. Gold Residents may f ree ly and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any fo rm are subject to licenses issued by the M in i s ter of Lands and Mines; impo rt licenses are issued f r e e ly but export licenses are g ran ted restrictively. Changes during 1976 July L The West A f r i c an C lear ing House fo rma l ly s tar ted operations. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Dinar. The parity for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1, and the Libyan Arab Republic avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Libya publishes da i ly buy ing and selling rates for 15 currencies.2 It deals w i th commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1976 were LD 0.29531 buy ing and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the rates were LD 0.50306 b u y i ng and LD 0.50559 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds s ter l ing and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates for the 15 currencies mentioned in footnote 2 are based on exchange rates that the Cen tral Bank publishes d a i ly. They may not deal among themselves in fo re ign currencies. Ne i ther authorized banks nor impor ters or exporters are allowed to enter in to fo rwa rd comm i tm en ts in fo re ign currenc ies. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Cen tral Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the au thor ized banks. Policy re la t ing to impo rt and export l icen s ing is determined by the Secretariat of Trade. Impo rt and export licenses genera l ly are issued by the Secretariat of Trade; for cer ta in impo r ts the approval of another Secretariat ( In te r io r, Hea l th, or Ag r i cu l tu re and Ag r a r i an R e fo rm) is requ i red. Foreign t rade has l a rg e ly been na t iona l ized (see section on Impo r ts and Impo rt Pay- men ts, b e low ). Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th other coun t r ies are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. do l lars or pounds sterling. A ll settlements w i th Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonres iden t, as de f ined by the Cen t ral B ank, who is ga in fu l ly employed in the L ibyan A rab Republic is per- mitted under the existing exchange control regu la t ions to open and m a i n t a in a nonres ident account in L ibyan d inars w i th any au tho r ized b ank in the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic. Leg i t ima te ea rn ings f rom employers of such nonresidents, in c lud ing over t ime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. S im i lar ly, autho- rized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonres ident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Rem i t tances abroad f rom such accounts ma in ta ined by non res ident laborers and techn ic ians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each mon th; for those whose contracts specify that lodging a n d / or board w i ll be made available f ree of charge by the employer, rem i t tances up to 90 per cent of net sa lary are perm i t ted. Banks may issue travelers checks and fore ign currency notes to non- resident laborers and technicians w i th in the l im i ts men- t ioned. Applications for amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts must be subm i t ted to the Central Bank. Such non re s iden ts may take w i th them when going abroad on vaca t ion or on final depar ture certain goods whose va lue is not deducted f rom the balances in the ir nonres ident accounts; a nonres ident may also export one au tomob i le d u r i ng his period of service in the L ibyan A rab Republic. Funds brought in to the Libyan A rab Republic by non re s ident contractors und e r t ak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" w i th a bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Paymen ts received in the L ibyan Arab Repub l ic by such contractors in respect of the ir contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Rem i t tances from the Libyan A rab Repub l ic to the deb it of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank a f ter sub- m iss ion of all the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be t ran s fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts. W i th the approval of the Cen t ral B ank, f u n ds in blocked accounts (w i th cer ta in excep t ions) may be used for expend i tu res in the Libyan A rab Repub l ic up to LD 500 a year to cover the costs of cu r rent visits to the L ibyan A r ab Repub l ic by the owner of the f u n ds or a close relative; for payments in the Libyan A rab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the f u n ds in his coun t ry of pe rmanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a ca lendar yea r; and for rem i t tances in cases of hardship. When the f u n ds have been in a blocked account for f ive years, they q u a l i fy for rem i t- tance in f u ll to the owner in his coun t ry of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- t a in exceptions) who have left the Libyan A rab Repub- lic p e rm an en t ly are being released in in s ta l lmen t s; bal- ances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. 1 E f fec t ive March 2, 1977, the name of the Libyan A rab Repub l ic was changed to the Socialist People's L ibyan Arab J am ah i r iy a. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss f r an c s, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Import transactions are governed by Law No. 64 of 1971, wh ich, among other th ings, s t ipu la tes that import and export ac t iv i t ies for t rad ing purposes shall be con- 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC fined to Libyans and to L ibyan companies whose capital is wholly owned by Libyan na t iona ls. Cer ta in impor ts may be made under open general license. The impo rt of some items, including alcoholic beverages and nar- cotics, is prohibited. Imports of pe tro leum and petroleum products, motor vehicles, sugar, salt, tea, rice, bar ley, wheat, flour, vegetable oils, toma to paste, sheep, cows, mea t, dried and concen t ra ted m i l k, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, soaps, detergents, tele- commun ica t ions equ ipmen t, ce r ta in electrical equ ipment and parts, certain insecticides, medical equ ipment and supplies, and Pharmaceuticals are conf ined to pub l ic sector companies and in s t i tu t ions and may be imported only by the National Oil Corpora t ion, the Na t ional Supplies Corporation, the Tobacco General Company, the General Dairy Produce Company, the Na t ional Company for Soaps and C l e an ing Ma te r ia l s, the N a t ion al Telecommunications Company, the General Company for Agricultural Machinery and Equ ipmen t, the Public Electric Works Company, the General Wire and Elec- trical Products Company, or the Na t ional Company for Medicines. The work of commercial agents, inc lud- ing import agents, for the fo l low ing goods and services is reserved for specified government agencies and jo int stock companies: cement, iron, wood, and l ime used in cons truc t ion; concentrated fodder and fer t i l izers; live- stock and meat; financial, bank ing, and air travel services; repair and ma in tenance of docks; and in fo rma- t ion, pub l ica t ion, and advertising. The Cen tral Bank has a monopoly over the import of unwo rked gold. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The Government exercises direct control over certain imports f rom various countries. Exchange permits required for imports are read i ly granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy f rom an insurance company in the Libyan A r ab Repub- lic is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an autho- rized bank without ob ta in ing a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration conf irm ing clearance and s ta t ing the va lua t ion. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. Deferred paymen ts ( for up to 90 days af ter customs c learance) and pay- ments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs du ty and to customs surcharges to ta l ing 15 per cent of the applicable cus- toms duty. 292 Payments for Invisibles The au thor ized banks are empowered to approve app l ica t ions by res iden ts to rem it fo re ign exchange up to LD 100 in a ca lendar year for mee t ing genu ine per- sonal comm i tm en ts abroad of a noncommerc ial na ture, i n c l u d i ng f am i ly ass is tance and g i f t s. They may also approve a l loca t ions for travel as ind ica ted below, as we ll as t r an s f e rs abroad to res iden ts of the L ibyan Arab Repub l ic u n d e r t a k i ng s tud ies ab road, of fore ign exchange for m a i n t e n a n c e, up to l im i ts prescribed for va r ious coun t r ies plus t u i t i on fees, an a l lowance for books, etc. R em i t t a n c es f rom non re s ident accounts may be approved by au tho r ized b anks up to cer ta in limits (see section on Non re s ident Accoun ts, abov e ). All o ther paymen ts for inv is ib les, as well as paymen ts in excess of the approval a u t h o r i ty de lega ted to the banks, r equ i re l icenses f rom the Cen t ral B a n k. App l ica t ions are considered on the ir mer i ts. Persons l e a v i ng the coun t ry may take w i th them L ibyan cu r rency notes not exceeding a to tal of LD 20 (LD 10 for ch i ld ren und er 1 2 ); these may not be spent or exchanged ou ts ide the L iby an A rab Repub l ic, but are in tended for imm e d i a te expenses in the Libyan Arab Republic upon re tu rn to the country. Residents leaving for personal t ravel abroad, i n c l u d i ng tourist travel may, in a d d i t i o n, take out fo re ign exchange in the fo rm of fo re ign cu r rency notes, t rave le rs checks, and letters of cred it not exceeding a total va lue of LD 300 in a ca lendar year as a basic travel a l lowance; the exchange may be ob ta ined f rom any au tho r ized bank in the Libyan A rab Republic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed ha lf of th is am o u n t. Am o u n ts in excess of the above may be gran ted in special circumstances. P i lg r ims were en t i t l ed d u r i ng 1976 to a special quota of LD 800 in a d d i t i on to the basic travel a l lowance. For business trave l, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 1,000 a t r ip, subject to a m a x im um of LD 2,500 in any ca lendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan d ina rs in the L ibyan Arab Repub l ic. Temporary resi- dents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are on ly required for fish, raw wool, h ides and sk ins, and for commod i t ies wh ich are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank w i th in six months of ship- m en t. Exports of nonmone ta ry gold (other than for processing ab ro ad ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; the export or re-export of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, and macaron i, which are subsidized commodities, is also prohibited. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered. Trave lers checks or fo re ign currency notes may be cashed only at an au thor ized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Cen t ral Bank. Travelers en t e r ing the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic may br ing w i th them L ibyan cu r rency notes, not exceeding a to tal of LD 20, and other cu r rency notes, trave lers checks, le t ters of credit, securities, coupons, and other nego t iab le in s t rum en ts in u n l im i t ed amoun t s. Capital M a ny aspects of the a c t iv i t i es of oil compan ies opera- t ing in the L ibyan A r ab Repub l ic are governed by Pe tro leum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. However, 51 per cent or more of the L ibyan in te res ts of most in t e rn a t ion al o il compan ies has been n a t i o n a l i z e d. Und er the provisions of the Foreign Cap i tal Inve s tment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to con t r ibu te to the econom ic develop- ment of the coun try, as well as prof i ts thereon, and salaries of foreign s ta ff employed on such projects may be t rans fe r red f ree ly to the coun t ry of or ig in, prov ided that the pa id-up cap i tal is not less t h an LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by fo re ign nationals. Foreign par t ic ipa t ion in new indus t r ial ven- tures (i.e., those set up a f t er March 20, 1970) is per- mitted only on a m ino r i ty basis, and only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requ i remen ts, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surp lus produc t ion. Insurance companies and fore ign shareholdings in banks have been na t iona l ized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in va ry ing degrees. Real estate in the Libyan Arab Republic may be sold only to L ibyans, other than in exceptional circumstances specified in a law of May 24, 1960 govern ing this sub- ject. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferab le, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident- owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate situated outside the Libyan Arab Republic or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the Libyan Arab Republic tak ing up permanent resi- LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC dence abroad are permitted to t rans fer up to LD 5,000 for a f am i l y; app l ica t ions may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. The inves tment of na t ional capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of Ap r il 20, 1973. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm o ther t h an bars in the L ibyan A r ab Republic. The C en t r al Bank has a monopo ly over the import of u nw o r k ed gold. It sells bars to domes t ic goldsmiths in l im i t ed quan t i t ies, to meet g enu ine commercial needs, at prices announ c ed f rom t ime to t im e; at the end of 1976 th is price was LD 1,492 a k i log r am. Provided that a l icense is ob ta ined f r om the M in i s t ry of Economy, go ldsm i ths may have such gold processed abroad, a f ter wh ich it must be re impo r ted. Bars purchased f rom the Cen t ral Bank must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Expor ts of unwo rked gold not for processing are not pe rm i t ted un less made by or on beha lf of the Gove rnmen t. Unwo rked gold is subject to an impo rt du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1976 January 1. Imports of seeds and seedlings were made subject to the prior approval of the M i n i s t ry of Agr icu l ture. March 14. Exports of raw wool were made subject to l icens ing. April 20. Impo r ts of dried and concen tra ted m i lk (except that designed for children's nu t r i t ion) were reserved for the General Da iry Produce Company. July 22. All impo r ts of n a t u r a l, syn the t ic, or m ixed woolen threads were to be hand led by the sp inn ing fac to ry at Al Ma r j. August 5. Soaps and chemical detergents could be imported only th rough the N a t i o n al Company for Soaps and Cleaning Materials. August 16. Medical equ ipment and supp l ies could be imported on ly th rough the N a t ion al Pha rmaceu t ical Company. August 16. The Na t ional Telecommunications Com- pany was made the sole importer of te lecommun ica t ions equ ipmen t. August 16. Several items of e lec tr ical e q u i pm e nt and parts could on ly be imported by the Pub l ic E lec tr ic Works Company or the General W i re and Electrical Products Company. Imports of insecticides for outdoor use were also reserved for a pub l ic sector company. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par v a lue or cen t ral rate for the cu r rency of Madagascar has been established w i th the Fund. The u n it of cu r rency is the Malagasy Franc, which is offi- c ia l ly m a i n t a i n ed at the rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange t ran sac t ions in French francs, the in t e rv en t ion currency, between the Cen tral Bank and comme rc ial b a n ks take place at the ra tes of FMG 50.25 selling, and FMG 49.75 buy ing, per F 1. The Cen tral Bank quotes seven other currenc ies .1 I ts b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar on December 31, 1976 were FMG 245.78 and FMG 248.25, respec t ive ly, per US$1. The au tho r ized banks are not pe rm i t ted to ma in- t a in an exchange position in any fo re ign cu r rency. A ll coun t r ies o ther t h an Madagascar i tse lf a re considered foreign countries, and f inanc ial relations w i th all fore ign coun tr ies are sub ject to exchange con t ro l. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in i s t e r ed by the D irec tora te of Ex te rnal F in an ce in the M i n i s t ry of F inance and P l an- n i n g, wh ich a lso superv ises bo r row ing and lend ing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or in t roduc t ion of fore ign secur i t ies in Madagasca r, a ll ou tw a rd inv e s tm en t s, and inw a rd d i rect inv e s tm en t. Some of the exchange con trol app roval au tho r i ty has been de lega ted to the au tho r ized bank s. A ll exchange t r an s a c t ions re la t ing to fo re ign coun- t r ies must be e f f e c t ed th rough a u t h o r i z ed i n t e rm e d i a r i e s. Impo rt licenses are issued by the D i rec to ra te of Com- merce in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce, i n c l u d i ng those for gold. Expo rt au tho r i z a t ions a re issued e i ther by the D i rec to ra te of Commerce or by o ther specified pub l ic agenc ies, m a i n ly s t a b i l i z a t i on f u n ds or m a r k e t i ng offices for a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc ts. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts and rece ip ts must be e f fec ted th rough the au thor ized in t e rm ed i a r i es wh ich may deal w i th the Cen- t r al B a nk o n ly in the cu r r en c i es quo ted by the l a t t e r. Nonresident Accounts The p r in c ip al type of non r e s id ent account is Fore ign Accoun ts in Malagasy F rancs; these accoun ts may be debited and cred i ted on ly for t r an s a c t ions be tween non- res iden ts and for exp l ic i t ly au tho r ized t r an s a c t ions between residents and non res iden ts. When Ma lagasy f rancs acc ru ing to a non re s ident are not e l ig ib le for credit to a Foreign Account for lack of su f f ic ient docu- men ta t ion, they must be c red i ted to a Special Accoun t, 1 These currencies are listed as Be lg ian f r a n c s, deu t sche m a r k, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, pounds s t e r l ing, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. 294 balances in which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to import licensing; the import of certain i tems is prohibited. Imports of f ru it juices are cond i t ional upon purchases of domestic f ru it juices (jumelage). Imports are effected within the framework of an a n n u al import program. The impo rt of certain items is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux, the Societe Na t iona le de Commerce (SONACO ), and Tranom-Bora tra Roso; these include alcoholic bev- erages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement. All impo rt t ransac t ions va lued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The impo rt license en t i t les impo r te rs to purchase the neces- sa ry exchange ( b ut not earlier t h an eight days before sh ipment when a documen ta ry cred it is opened ). Payments for Invisibles Most paymen ts for inv i s ib l es requ ire the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance and P lann ing. For some types of t r an s a c t ions the approval a u t h o r i ty has been delegated to au thor ized banks, either up to speci- fied l im i ts or for any amount that is properly docu- men ted. Res iden ts may ob ta in an exchange allocation for tou r ism equ iva lent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two t r ips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under t e n ); any fo re ign exchange r em a in ing a f t er return to Madaga scar must be su r rende red. There also is an exchange a l loca t ion for business t ravel up to the equiva- lent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maxi- mum of FMG 200,000 a person a t r i p, for any number of t r ips a year. Au tho r ized banks may not make avail- able fo re ign bankno tes in excess of the equ iva lent of FMG 20,000 a person a t r ip for tou r i st or business t rave l. App l ica t ions for amoun ts in excess of the basic tou r ist and bus iness travel a l loca t ions, and applications for exchange for any o ther type of t rave l, must be sub- m i t ted to the M i n i s t ry of F in an ce and P l ann ing. Alloca- t ions for d i f f e r e nt types of travel may not be comb ined w i thout the prior approval of the D irec tora te of the Treasury. There are basic a l loca t ions for s tudy expenses and c e r t a in o ther cu r rent invisibles. Dividends a re t rans fe r- ab le in f u ll when d i s t r ibu t ed by i n d u s t r i al f i rms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may only be t r an s f e r r ed to non re s ident physical or j u r i d i c al persons of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i t y. The t r an s f er of sav ings f rom wages and sa lar ies ea rned by a fo re igner wo rk ing in Madagascar is permitted, upon presen ta t ion of his work con tract and emp loyment pe rm i t, and provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their family in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose family lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for all concerned during leave spent outside Madagascar); in no event, however, may the transferable amount exceed F MG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to F MG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign banknotes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to a ll destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Directorate of Commerce or the appropriate commodity stabilization office; these products include coffee, van i l la, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. SONACO has a monopoly over exports of beans. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination. A ll export transactions valued at F MG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency pro­ ceeds not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accru­ ing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. The import of Malagasy banknotes in excess of FMG 5,000 is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,2 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,-5 require prior 2 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. :! Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com­ panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in M ad a­ gascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com­ panies in Madagascar. M A D A G A S C AR approval of the M in is ter of Finance and Planning (i.e., the Directorate of the Treasury). The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the M in is t ry of Finance and Planning. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign invest­ ments in Madagascar, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance and Planning within 20 days following each operation. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the M in i s t ry of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, requires prior authori­ zation by the M in is ter of Finance and Planning. How­ ever, loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt from approval. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of September 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted pref­ erential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the intro­ duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualifying for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation ). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from this require­ ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu­ factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and collector's coins up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declara­ tion. New ly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and M ines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A D A G A S C AR Changes during 1976 January 1. Ordinance N o. 75-043 of December 30, 1975 came into force. It abolished the tariff prefer­ ences granted to the original member states of the E E C. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the Malagasy franc and the French franc remained unchanged. March 22. Order N o. 843/3.1 introduced new import licensing procedures designed to facilitate control over the execution of the general import program. March 25. Order N o. 921/3.1 required any natural or jur id ical person to obtain the approval of the M in i s­ try of Economy and Commerce before engaging in import activities. The objective was to reduce the num­ ber of importers so as to facilitate state control over foreign trade. If approval was granted, an "importer's card" was issued, which was a prerequisite for engaging in import transactions. Approved importers had to undertake to purchase goods in any country that the authorities might specify. March 31. Supplement N o. 1005 to Order N o. 843/3.1 provided that all imports had to be shipped within six months following the issue of the import license. April 3. Notice N o. 1006 was gazetted setting out the general import program for 1976. A list of pro­ hibited imports also was issued. June 25. The President announced the nationalization of the petroleum sector. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Malawi Kwacha. Since June 7, 1975 the currency has been pegged to the SDR, at MK 1 = S DR 0.9487. The middle rate for the U . S. dollar is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the U . S. do l la r -SDR rate; rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates in the London market. On Decem­ ber 31, 1976, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were MK 1 = US$1.1048 and MK 1 = US$1 .0992, respectively, per US $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Ma lawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks designated as authorized dealers. Import policy is formulated by the M in is ter of Trade and Industry, sub­ ject to the approval of the Cabinet. The M in is ter is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents (other than residents of Rhodesia) may be made in M a l awi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency 1 traded in M a l aw i. Payments from residents of other countries (except Rho­ desia) may be received in M a l awi kwacha from a non­ resident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in M a l awi kwacha held by residents of other countries (except Rhodesia) are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the pro­ ceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in M a l awi kwacha by residents to countries other than Rhodesia, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Ma lawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in M a l aw i. Externa! Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in M a l awi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited w i th (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in M a l aw i, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian External Accoun t. The accounts may be debited w i th (1) payments to residents of M a l awi for 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Ma lawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in M a l aw i; (3) transfers to another Rhodesian External Accoun t; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Ma lawi kwacha held with autho­ rized banks by residents of any country other than M a l awi are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Ma lawi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in Ma law ian securities, provided that these are held in Ma lawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Con t rol of Goods A c t, which authorizes the M i n­ ister of Trade and Industry to control and regulate the import, export, distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, wholesale price, and retail price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought into operation, w i ll require all importers and exporters to be registered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. F or a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. A ll other goods may be imported under an open general license when originating in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the G A TT (except Po l and ). Imports originating in the Republic of Ch ina are treated similarly but require an individual license. W i th respect to other countries (including Po land ), an import license is required for all commodi­ ties except certain items that are free from licensing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding MK 50 in value, samples, and adver­ tising materials. Payments for imports from a ll countries must be made within six months after the date of import, except with the express permission of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject to the presentation of relevant documents and comp l i­ ance with import licensing requirements, and provided that payment does not take place against a sight letter of credit or a sight b i ll of exchange. A ny transfer of - Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A WI funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to MK 100 on presentation of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires pay­ ment in advance. A surtax of 15 per cent is levied on most goods imported into M a l aw i, irrespective of their or ig in; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, w i th a maximum of MK 600 a calen­ dar year, and MK 10 a day for each ch i ld under 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. The annual allowance is not cumula­ tive but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. These allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as edu­ cation, medical treatment, and family remittances. A p p l i­ cations for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in M a l awi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in M a l awi cur­ rency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or w i ll be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of M a l awi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities 3 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign cur­ rency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no : {Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 298 limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in M a l awi currency notes and coins may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, w i th the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repay­ ment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made w i th funds brought into the country from sources outside M a l aw i; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange wh ich accrues to them. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) M a r r i ed persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar­ ture, together with MK 500 for each ch i ld, up to a maxi­ mum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unma r r ied persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emi­ grant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the origi­ nal emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure from M a l aw i, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Applications for emigrants' allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange con­ trol authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresi­ dents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside M a l aw i. App roval to lend to nonresident- controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that exces­ sive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient work ing capital from abroad; the permissible ratio between nonresident- controlled firms' domestic borrowing and their externally obtained funds is subject to change. Gold Residents of M a l awi may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in M a l awi for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and Industry in consultation w i th the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1976 July 26. The import surtax was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent by Government Notice N o. 108 of July 24. M A L A WI 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Ringgit, and Malaysia avails itself of wider margins. On June 21, 1973 the authorities ceased to maintain the exchange rate within announced margins, and since September 27, 1975 the ringgit has been pegged to a composite of the currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners. The closing buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar in the Malaysian foreign exchange market on December 31, 1976 were M$2 .5340 and M$2.5355 per US $ 1, respectively. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Ma lays ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government through­ out Ma lays ia, the Governor of the Bank being the Con­ troller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose; no such delegation has been granted for the repayment of foreign loans or the payment of interest on such loans. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control through­ out Malaysia 1 is carried out jointly by the M in is t ry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency A ll payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca may be made either in ringgit through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israel, Rhodesian, and South A f r ican currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca must be obtained, within the time of payment specified in the commercial con­ tract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Ma lays ia, or in any specified currency. Special regula­ tions apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i c a. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External 1 The three territories of Malaysia are Peninsular Ma lays ia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Labuan is a free port. 300 Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for what­ ever purpose are freely permitted subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$ 1,000 and up to M $l million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M $l m i l l ion, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israel, Rhodesian, and South A f r ican currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South A f r ican Accounts, respectively. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Ma lays ia have not yet been fully unified, although steps toward unification are being taken. Some internal tariffs and other trade restrictions still exist between the terri­ tories of Ma lays ia. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Cer­ tain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports into a ll parts of Ma lays ia of a ll commodities from Israel, South A f r i c a, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by any one of these are prohibited. Imports into all parts of Ma lays ia of all commodities from the People's Republic of Ch ina are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except those for items subject to quantitative restriction. Imports into all parts of Ma lays ia of all com­ modities from the German Democratic Republic and No r th Ko r ea also require specific licenses. Imports into Peninsular Ma lays ia of primates from all sources, including Sabah and Sarawak, are prohibited except under specific license; imports of other live ani­ mals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from Brune i, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Tha i land, and Viet Nam also require a specific license. Imports into Sarawak of sulfur, certain chemicals, and live sheep and goats from a ll sources, including Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah, are prohibited, except under specific license. Imports of motor vehicles into a ll parts of Malaysia are also subject to specific import licensing. Payment for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A Y S IA permitted imports is allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually a ll imports into Ma lays ia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, common salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the standard rate of tax is 5 per cent ad valorem, but certain luxury goods are subject to a rate of 10 per cent ad valorem. of Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, Hong K o n g, N o r th Ko rea, the Republic of Ko rea, Macao, and V iet N am. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange c o n t r ol requ i remen ts gov e rn ing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in principle, s im i­ lar to those for export proceeds. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 1,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to a ll countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on a ll bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$ 1,000. Unless special permis­ sion is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Ma lays ian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Ma lays ia by travelers. Nonresident travelers are allowed to take out foreign currency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Ma lays ia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Ma lays ian territory. Exchange con­ trol forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Ma lays ia for exports valued at M$5 ,000 f.o.b. or more.2 Proceeds from exports must be received within the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Ma lays ia. Exports of rubber from Penin­ sular Ma lays ia require a certificate issued by the Ma lay­ sian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of rubber and tin to South A f r i ca and any territory admin­ istered by South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll exports to Israel and Rhodesia and any territory administered by either also are prohibited. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and licenses for these and a few other items (such as fertilizers and pig iron) are adminis­ tratively denied. A l so subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," a ll commodities used in barter trade, and a ll exports to the People's Republic 3 In the case of exports to Indonesia, in excess of M$100,000. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and take-overs) or by those issued on October 29, 1975 (regarding foreign equity participa­ tion) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of investments may be repa­ triated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign cur­ rencies. Companies in Ma lays ia controlled by nonresi­ dents are permitted to borrow in Ma lays ia up to M$500 ,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, Rho­ desia, and South A f r i c a. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been materially increased in value by skilled craftsmanship. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trading in gold coins other than the M$100, M$200, M$250, and M$500 gold coins of Malaysian currency and the S$ 150 gold coin of Singapore currency. Resident and nonresident travelers, however, may bring in or take out, on their person, one piece each of the M$100, M$200, and M$250 gold coins. A traveler may also bring in on his person one M$500 gold co in. The export of the M$500 gold coin in any manner is prohibited. In addition, each traveler is allowed to bring in from any country outside Ma lays ia one S$150 gold coin issued by the Singapore Board of Commissioners of Currency, and each traveler may take out one such coin, but only to Singapore. Licensed goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control authorities to purchase certain quanti­ ties of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, producers of gold are per­ mitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A Y S IA Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs A c t, 1967, and require licenses from the M in is t ry of Trade and Industry. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is normally not given except for imports by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genuine require­ ments of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial use. Imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender sys­ tem; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 7 per cent import duty and a 5 per cent surtax as well as a sales tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. The sale of gold by domestic producers is subject only to the sales tax, at 10 per cent ad valorem. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations; any export licenses that might be issued for gold or gold coins would require in addition the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1976 April 29. Imports of buttons and liquids for hydraulic brakes and transmissions required an individual license. May 6. Imports of fuller's earth and certain resins required an individual license. June 10. Imports of steel drums required an individual license. July 1. Exports of processed palm o il products were charged an export duty based on the extent of processing done. July 1. The import duty on agricultural and horti­ cultural machinery for soil preparation or cultivation, etc., was reduced. July 8. Imports of white cement required an indi­ vidual license. July 15. Import duties were restructured on a wide range of goods including weighing machinery, platform scales, etc. July 20. Import duties on certain types of chemical fertilizers were reduced. July 29. Imports of pistons and cylinder liners required an individual license. The import duty on sodium hydroxide was raised. August 12. Imports of knives and cutting blades no longer required an individual license. August 26. Under a Constitutional Amendment, state governments were permitted to borrow, with approval of the Federal Government, for a period not exceeding five years, from a bank or other financial source, domestic or foreign. Previously the limit was one year and borrowing was restricted to approved domestic banks. September 9. The import quota arrangements for textiles, which had been introduced in January 1974, were terminated. September 23. It was announced that an export credit insurance corporation with an in i t ial paid-up capital of about US$2 m i l l ion, providing coverage for about US$50 m i l l ion in exports, would be established. A facility by the Central Bank to rediscount exporters' bills at a preferential interest rate would also be introduced. (This was effected January 3, 1977.) October 29. The rates of export duty and surcharge on major commodities, v iz ., rubber, t in, and palm oil, were revised so that less duty would be payable at lower price levels. December 30. Imports of matches into Sabah required an individual license. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA LD IV E S1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Maldives, the Ma ld iv ian Rupee. A fixed official rate is maintained of M ai Rs 3.93 = US $ 1. There is also a fluctuating exchange rate in a free market conducted by the two commercial banks; on Decem­ ber 31, 1976 this rate was about M ai Rs 8.5 = US $ 1. The official rate is applicable to all public sector trans­ actions and the free market rate to the transactions of the private sector. There is no central bank. U . S. do l­ lars, pounds sterling, and certain other foreign curren­ cies circulate freely and may be used for domestic payments. Administration of Control No exchange control legislation has been issued. Exchange and trade controls are administered by the Department of Finance. This Department also issues import and export licenses. Most import and export trade is conducted by the State Trad ing Organization. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currencies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Imports are subject to licensing only if undertaken to match licensed exports of domestic products (see Sec­ tion on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Import licenses, where required, are issued freely. The foreign exchange for licensed and unlicensed imports by the private sector must be obtained in the free market. Most staples (including rice, sugar, wheat flour, and kerosene) are imported at the official rate by the State Trading Organization. 1 Maldives is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may freely make payments for all current invisibles through the free market. Payments by the public sector are made at the official rate. Trave l­ ers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, subject to declaration only. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a monopoly over the export of fresh and dried "Ma ld ive fish." Private sector exports of all other domestic products require licenses. These are not normally withheld, but exporters are required to import equivalent commodities within a specified period. In the interim before the counterimports are paid for, the export proceeds are freely disposable through the free market. Re-exports are exempt both from export licensing and from the requirement of matching the transaction with future imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the free market. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency, subject to declaration only. Capital Residents of the private sector as well as nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the free market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. A ll public sector transactions take place at the official rate. Inward direct investment requires approval, and the acquisition of land by noncitizens is prohibited. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold do not require licenses. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate for the currency of M a li has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the M a li Franc, which is officially main­ tained at the rate of MF 1 = 0.01 French franc. There is also a fixed rate for C FA francs of MF 2 = C F AF 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Ma l i 's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except M a li itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of M a l i. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco­ nomic Affairs in the M in is try of Finance and C om­ merce. Exchange control is applicable only to foreign countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agree­ ments. Bilateral accounts are maintained with the Peo­ ple's Republic of Ch ina, the German Democratic Re­ public, Egypt, Hungary, Mo rocco, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and V iet N a m .1 M a li is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A rea, since its Central Bank maintains an Opera­ tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are made in M a li francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agree­ ment is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gamb ia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican C lear ing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of all other goods, when originating outside the West African Economic Community, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports originating in a country of the West A f r ican Economic Community require only an import certificate. Imports from the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, Ko rea, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance w i th an annual import program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the convertible area (defined as comprising a ll other coun­ tries, including the French Franc A r e a ). Certain aid- financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne d'lmport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 A ll imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with M a li are made by SOMIEX or UNICOOP. The Office des Produits Agricoles du M a li ( O P A M) has a monopoly over the import of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to h im. In addition, exporters may with an import license import any goods under the E X IC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) pro­ cedure. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for a ll licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other 1 The payments arrangement with Morocco is inoperative. 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries are subject to approval. Payments for inv is i­ bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi­ dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva­ lent to MF 150,000 a person, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to M a li must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 400,000 a t r ip .3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in M a li is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resi­ dent travelers, irrespective of destination, may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in M a li banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Opera­ tions Account countries ( MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 150,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in M a li banknotes and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera­ tions Account country must be surrendered; export pro­ ceeds must normally be collected and repatriated w i th in 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destina­ tion. Exports to countries outside the West A f r ican Economic Community require individual licenses; those to countries of the West A f r ican Econom ic Community require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and that of meat and hides and skins for the Societe Malienne du Betail, des Peaux et Cu irs (SOM B E P EC); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and individuals. The marketing of cereals is entrusted to O P A M. Under the E X IC procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of the proceeds from exports of commodities of the traditional sector except those covered by the monopoly of state trading companies, for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on E X IC accounts and import rights under the E X IC procedure are not transferable. 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. M A LI Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resi­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of M a l i, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a. Capital Capital movements between M a l i, France (as defined above), and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls ( in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of M a li is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) or to coun­ tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Under an Investment Code of M ay 23, 1969 and Law N o. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign invest­ ments that would be of special interest to the M a l i an economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic P lan. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in M a li for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1976 January. Ordinance N o. 76 /3 abolished the tariff preferences for imports originating in member states of the E E C. February J. Trade w i th other members of the West A f r i c an Economic Community was freed from import and export licensing. Instead, import and export certifi­ cates were required, for administrative purposes only. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A LI They were subject to the same stamp taxes as the licenses they replaced. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the M a li franc and the French franc remained unchanged. July 1. The West A f r i c an C lear ing House formally came into operation. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA L TA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Ma l ta Pound. In December 1971 a central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per M a l ta pound was established, cor­ responding at the time to <£M 0.3744112 = U S $ 1, or £M 0.406504 = S DR 1, and Ma l ta avails itself of wider margins. However, since July 8, 1972 the Ma l ta pound has been pegged to a basket of currencies. The Central Bank of Ma l ta quotes daily rates for deutsche mark, Italian lire, pounds sterling, and U . S. dollars based on developments in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1976 was <£ stg. 137.80 per <£M 100, and its basic rate for the U . S. dollar was US$2,344 per <£M 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New Y o r k. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance, Customs and People's F inanc ial Investments; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the M in is t ry of Trade. A large number of authorities to approve appli­ cations for the allocation of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Ma l ta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign cu r r en cy ;1 the proceeds of exports to a ll countries may be received in Ma l ta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Ma l ta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Ma l ta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to non­ residents, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including banknotes), and with M a l ta bank­ notes mailed from outside Ma l ta. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in M a l t a, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). Authorized dealers may also freely open and maintain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a non- 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than Malta pound. the resident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other foreign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Blocked Accounts in M a l ta pounds are maintained for Maltese nationals who emigrate. Assets of such emigrants in excess of the amount ( £M 7,500) that may be transferred to the new country of residence are credited to a Blocked Account; funds so credited are normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities are either prohibited or restricted. A ll imports from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czecho­ slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and V iet N am are subject to specific licensing, are as imports of certain items from any country of origin. Imports from countries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be made freely under open general license. Imports subject to state trading include sugar, cereals, and cement. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied w i th and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form, are sub­ mitted to the intermediary bank. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles in excess of <£M 50 require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks for most types of payment. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of <£M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allowance of £M 250 a trip or £ M 3 0a day (for up to 30 days a t r ip ), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses abroad of <£M 3,000 a person for an academic year.2 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied that there is no i l l ic it capital outflow involved. The transfer of genuine profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires Central Bank permission, which is normally given, after com­ pliance with certain formalities. L ife insurance expressed in Ma l ta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in M a l t a, pro­ vided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Mainte- 2 F or purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Ma l ta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or intend to continue so living for at least three years. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L TA nance remittances to beneficiaries abroad are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. Travelers may export Ma l ta banknotes and coins up to <£M 25 for each person. Exports of foreign currencies may be made by resident travelers up to <£M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to the amount brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 80 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are subject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in Ma l ta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over receipts. Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an autho­ rized bank, and payments of a capital nature in such currencies require prior approval. Applications for out­ ward direct investment by residents of Ma l ta and for direct investment in Ma l ta by nonresidents are con­ sidered on their merits. The purchase of real estate in Ma l ta is controlled by the Immovable Property (Acqu is i­ tion by Non-Residents) A c t, 1974. This A c t, which is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Ma l ta by non­ residents,3 with the exception of certain special cases which would be mainly related to the economic devel­ opment of M a l t a. Applications for the acquisition of property for use as a residence from individuals who do not already hold any property in Ma l ta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign investments up to the equivalent of £M 500 a person a calendar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated out­ side M a l ta in excess of the <£M 500 limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside Ma l ta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to £M 7,500 for each family; any excess amount is nor­ mally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. : {F or the purpose of this A c t, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not citizens of Ma l ta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Ma l ta, or (b) it has its principal place of residence or of business outside Ma l ta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, and whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. 308 Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend outside M a l ta only, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Ma l ta has issued 16 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents other than authorized banks are allowed to hold coins or acquire jewelry. Residents may freely pur­ chase, sell, and hold any gold coins. The import of gold coins for numismatic purposes is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanu­ factured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Au thor ized importers are per­ mitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other indus­ trial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. G o ld bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1976 January 30. Imports of instant coffee required a specific license. February 1. The emigration allowance for Maltese nationals was increased from <£M 5,000 to <£M 7,500 for a family unit; the period over which any excess assets would normally be released was reduced from four years to three years after the date of departure. February 1. The delegated authority to authorized dealers to effect payments to nonresidents for purposes other than imports was revised. The principal changes were as follows: The delegated authority for payments for education abroad was increased from <£M 2,000 to <£M 3,000 per person per academic year. The authority to make payments for the public sector, pre­ viously limited to government transfers, was extended to include A ir Ma l ta and most other public sector cor­ porations. Au thor i ty was added for the transfer of gambling proceeds (casino w inn ings). February 4. A Special Repatriation Deposit Scheme designed to stimulate the reflow of Maltese funds deposited or invested abroad came into operation. Per­ sons holding investments made prior to December 31, 1975 could repatriate the foreign currency proceeds and, after conversion at the Central Bank, have the equiva­ lent credited to one-year deposit accounts denominated in Ma l ta pounds. Deposits made in 1976 and 1977 would earn interest at 8 per cent and S3A per cent, respectively. U p on maturity of a deposit, it could either be retained in the scheme or withdrawn, in which case the funds could be reinvested abroad. February 13. Import payments for parcels received through the postal system could be effected against invoices, as an exception to the general rule that import payments could only be made upon submission of a com­ pleted customs entry form. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 23. The delegated authority granted to authorized dealers to give and renew guarantees, indem­ nities, and commitments for account of nonresidents was extended to include nonresident-controlled locally reg­ istered bodies corporate. The conditions to which this authority was subject were eased on M ay 17. March 4. Several protocols to the Association Agreement with the E EC were signed. One extended the first stage of the association arrangements, which was to have ended on M a r ch 31, until the entry into force of the second stage or June 30, 1977, whichever would be earlier. Another protocol was intended to adapt the 1970 Agreement to the situation resulting from the enlargement of the E EC and to broaden the field of application in the agricultural sector (the original Agree­ ment had applied essentially to the industrial sector only). In addition, a financial protocol was concluded providing for financial aid of 26 m i l l ion European units of account. March 5. Imports of additional types of footwear and of toothpaste required a specific license. April 2. Imports of certain bitumens and of cloth shoulder bags required a specific license. May 26. Imports of rice, certain textile materials, and leather gloves required a specific license. M A L TA June 1. The regulations regarding personal invest­ ments abroad by resident natural persons over 18 years of age were eased further. P r ior authorization was no longer required to invest the income arising from such investments held abroad. A l s o, the surrender value or maturity proceeds from insurance policies expressed in foreign currency were declared eligible for reinvestment abroad. July 2. The Sale of Commodities (Con tro l) Regula­ tions were amended to the effect that no person could import any commodity for resale unless he were in the possession of a license issued by the Director of Trade authorizing him to act as an importer. July 6. The Import Duties A c t, 1976 repealed and re-enacted with amendments the Import Duties A c t, 1964. The new A ct provided for certain reductions in import duties for goods originating in the new member countries of the E E C, in accordance w i th the protocol of M a r ch 4, 1976 (see above). It also abolished Malta's Commonwealth tariff preferences. August 17. Imports of precast concrete and of ciga­ rette vending machines required a specific license. August 31. Imports of additional textile materials required a specific license. November 23. Imports of coal and coke required a specific license. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Maur i tan ia has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Ouguiya, which is defined as equivalent to 0.016 gram of fine gold. Since January 22, 1974 the Central Bank of Maur i tan ia has quoted daily buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar and 16 other currencies 1 on the basis of variations in the relationship between the U . S. dollar and four European currencies (Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, and Netherlands guilders). The exchange rate on December 31, 1976 was UM 43.31 buying, and UM 43.97 selling, per U S $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The former also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Maur i tan ia, inward direct investment and all outward investment, the purchase abroad of domestic and foreign securities, and the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the Central Bank, which in turn has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to collect, either direct or through the inter­ mediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of pay­ ments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Adm in is tra­ tion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the M in is t ry of Commerce. A ll import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. The Na t ional Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles and over exports of gum arabic. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements with Israel and South A f r ica are pro­ hibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domes­ tic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may only be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur­ rency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, C FA francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, M a li francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 310 Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic banknotes. Convertible Accounts may be debited without Central Bank approval for any payment inside or outside Mau r i tan ia. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israeli and South A f r ican origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. Imports from a ll countries require an import license. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except in the case of imports "without payment." After the approval (visa) of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already arrived. Advance pay­ ments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments (subject to conditions laid down in circulars) to autho­ rized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to any foreign country may obtain an annual exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to UM 10,000 a person ( UM 5,000 for children under ten). There are special arrangements for travel to neighbor­ ing countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet (carnet de change). The transfer of savings from salaries by for­ eigners working in Maur i tan ia is permitted up to varying percentages, according to family status. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to a ll countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds UM 5,000. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds (engagement de change). Exports to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all countries require an export license and the approval (visa) of the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of cattle of SONICOB. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur­ rendered. A ll amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and a ll income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date of the payment. The importa­ tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Maur i tan ia and Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Maur i tan ia and a ll foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Maur i tan ia, and over the solicitation of funds in Maur i tan ia for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. A ll investments abroad by residents of Maur i tan ia require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in M a u r i t a n i a2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad ,3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has a period of two months from receipt of the declara­ tion during which it may request the postponement of the projects submitted to it. The full or partial liquida­ tion of inward or outward investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Maur i tan ia, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, 2 Including those made by companies in Maur itan ia that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Maur itan ia of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com­ panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in M a u r i­ tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. M A U R I T A N IA provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mau r i tan ia requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th loans backed by a guarantee from the Maur i tan ian Government. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, wh ich are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans con­ tracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand­ ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed UM 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Central Bank if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Furthermore, such prior approval is required for the repayment of a ll amounts borrowed abroad prior to the publication of Decree N o. 72-249 of November 27, 1972. Lend ing abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Domestic bank credit is restricted. The Investment Code (Law N o. 76-251 of October 16, 1976) provides for various benefits for private invest­ ments in Maur i tan ia. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Maur i tan ia. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Central Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1976 January 1. Law N o. 75-351 of December 31, 1975 came into force. It eliminated the tariff preferences granted to the original member states of the E E C. Specified items, however, were exempted from customs duty when imported from a member state of the enlarged E E C. February 25. Law N o. 76-017 of January 27 was gazetted. It lifted the prohibition on trade w i th Portugal. October 16. A new Investment Code, Law N o. 76-251, was adopted. 3 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Mau r i t ian Rupee. The central rate is SDR 1 = M au Rs 7.713759, and Mauritius avails itself of wider margins. The pound sterling is the intervention currency. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at rates based on the SDR transaction rate for sterling and in other foreign currencies 1 at rates based on London market rates for these currencies. The Bank of Maur i t ius' rates for sterling on December 31, 1976 were M au Rs 11.28 buying, and M au Rs 11.32 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on the same date were M au Rs 11.223 buying, and M a u Rs 11.353 selling, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U . S. dollar the rates were M au Rs 6.61 buying, and M au Rs 6.73 selling, per US$1 (for transactions in excess of US$12 ,000 ). A different effective rate results from the application of a stamp duty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital transfers other than transfers of banking funds and to payments for gold coins and gold bu l l ion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of M a u­ ritius under powers delegated to it by the F inanc ial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency F or prescription of currency purposes Mauritius dis­ tinguishes between Sterling A rea coun tr ies2 and Exter­ nal Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling A rea countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling A r ea Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling A rea currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling A rea may be received in rupees from a Sterling A rea Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling A rea. Pay­ ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea may be made in rupees to a Sterling A rea Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian cur­ rency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non- Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts wh ich may be opened by per­ sons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling A r e a ,2 may be credited with (1) authorized payments by resi­ dents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers from other Ster­ ling A rea Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling A rea; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Maur i t ius. They may be debited for (1) payments from residents of the Sterling A r ea to residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling A rea Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange con­ trol authorities in the appropriate Sterling A r ea country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling A rea currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Maur i t ius and the Sterling A rea. They may be credited w i th (1) authorized pay­ ments by residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) payments from Sterling A rea Accounts in respect of wh ich the permis­ sion of the exchange control authorities of the appro­ priate Sterling A r ea country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (other than Rhodesian cur­ rency) or gold by nonresidents of Maur i t ius and the Sterling A rea. They may be debited for (1) any pay­ ments to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers to Sterling A rea Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Maur i t ius realized from investments made by them prior to A p r il 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of M au Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Maur i t ius that have been spe­ cifically authorized for credit to a B locked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Maur i t ius. U p on the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Accoun t. 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur­ rencies as all currencies other than the Maur it ian rupee. - The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define the Sterling A r ea as comprising the United K ingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of M a n, and the Republic of Ireland. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for wh ich a specific license from the 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required, regard­ less of or ig in. A ll other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling A r ea (as defined before June 23, 1972), but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non- Sterling A r ea countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or spe­ cific license automatically carries w i th it exchange con­ trol authority to make the corresponding import pay­ ments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equiva­ lent of <£ stg. 400 a person a year for travel to any country except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 35 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Maur i t ius. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling A rea countries and to non-Sterling A r ea countries in respect of family sup­ port, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Maur i t ius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the stan­ dard allocations may be submitted to the exchange con­ trol authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A l so prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the F inanc ial Secre­ tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted w i th these; and (3) works of art. A ll exports valued at more than M au Rs 1,000 and a ll exports of food valued at over M au Rs 50 require a license from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. The Maur i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A 6-12 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports, as well as an additional export levy of M au Rs 100 a ton. A ll export proceeds in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, per­ M A U R I T I US mission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an autho­ rized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than M au Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out­ ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric­ tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling A r ea (see footnote 2) on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp duty (a duty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also transfer a rea­ sonable amount of capital to External Account A r ea countries on payment of the stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp duty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling A r ea by a resident of the Sterling A r e a, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Sterling A rea country con­ cerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Per­ mission for the repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before A p r il 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or after that date. P ro­ ceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of M au Rs 100,000 from their Mau r i t ian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, wh ich occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Maur i t ius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold in the form of numismatic coins (including commemorative gold coins of M au Rs 200 and M au Rs 1,000) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A U R I T I US except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry consti­ tuting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary cus­ toms surcharges. Changes during 1976 January 5. The Mauritian rupee was repegged from sterling to the SDR. A central rate of SDR 1 = Mau Rs 7.713759 was established, and Mauritius availed itself of wider margins. The pound sterling remained the intervention currency. Previously, the official rate for ster­ ling had been maintained at Mau Re 1 = <£ stg. 0.075. February 27. Importers were required to pay from their own resources at least 25 per cent of the cost of imported goods, and banks were required to restrict their credit in respect of such imports to at most 75 per cent of the invoice value. Exempt were imports by the Gov­ ernment. Subsequently, exemptions were also granted for imports by manufacturing industries and educational institutions, as well as imports of rice, lentils, beans, split peas, powdered milk, sardines, and other canned fish. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0589330 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso. Since September 1, 1976 the exchange rate has not been maintained within announced mar­ gins. On December 31, 1976 the closing rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$ 19.90 buying, and Mex$20.00 selling, per US $ 1. Banks may freely engage in exchange transactions between the peso and any other currency. There are forward exchange facilities for transactions between Mex ican pesos and foreign currencies. On November 12, 1946, Mex ico notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Iran and Yugoslavia, pay­ ments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with those countries handled through the Mexican banking system may, with the prior authoriza­ tion of the Bank of Mex ico, be made through special accounts denominated in U . S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mex ico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clear­ ing system. Similar arrangements exist for payments between Mex ico and the Dom in ican Republic and between Mex ico and Cuba. Payments to Costa R ica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mex ican pesos or Central Amer ican currencies in accordance with the reciprocal credit agreements between the cen­ tral banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. A ll imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For many goods, irrespective of origin, import licenses from the M in is t ry of Commerce are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses may be subject to quantitative restriction. F or specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited importa­ tion during a specified period o f - t im e, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Applications for import licenses are screened by the M in is t ry of Commerce w i th the aid of committees composed of importers, producers, and consumers. Import licenses for certain goods, including leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and automobiles and their spare parts, are subject to an overall annual l im i t. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the M in is t ry of Commerce are required (such as unas­ sembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and television sets, and whiskey, wines, and other liquors) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 6 per cent of the value of the import transaction, the proceeds of which are allocated to a fund handled by the Mex ican Foreign Trade Insti­ tute ( I M C E) for the promotion of exports. F or a small number of luxury items, no licenses are granted. Imports by official Mex ican agencies are subject to prior approval by I M CE after screening by the Institute's Import Committee of the Pub l ic Sector ( C I S P ); this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equiva­ lent is available at a price differential of 15-20 per cent. V i r tua l ly all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund the Federal Government has established with the Bank of Mex ico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con­ tracting of insurance for persons in Mex ico, or on property of Mex ican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mex ico or may occur in Mex ico, is only permitted with Mex ican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mex ico in accordance w i th Mex ican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange con­ trol requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Rebates of indirect taxes by means of a system of CEDIS (certificados de devolucion de impuestos) are granted on exports of certain manufactured and semimanufactured products (and of certain services). Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mex ican bank­ ing or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, elec- 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M E X I CO tricity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, railroads, and telecommunications, are reserved to gov­ ernment investment. Investment in a number of activi­ ties is reserved exclusively for Mex ican individuals or corporations (radio and television, the public trans­ portation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government), while new investments in other sectors must have a majority par­ ticipation of Mex ican capital. Foreign investments in Mex ico must be registered with the Na t ional Foreign Investment Register in the M in is t ry of Commerce. Applications by foreign natural or juridical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mex ican company, or over 49 per cent of its fixed assets, require the prior authorization of the competent ministry, after the Na t ional Foreign Investment Com­ mission has granted the necessary registration. A ll acquisitions of stock in Mex ican companies by foreign natural or jur id ical persons must be registered within 30 days with the Na t ional Foreign Investors Registry. Borrowing abroad (or within Mex ico in foreign cur­ rency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit. Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to certain requirements imposed by the Bank of Mex ico; these banks are permitted to accept foreign currency deposits from residents as well as non­ residents.1 Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manu­ facturers effected through authorized Mex ican credit institutions. Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell monetary gold in Mex ico. The Bank of Mex ico does not buy or sell gold in transactions w i th private banks, individuals, or firms. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold undertaking not to sell it at prices exceeding inter­ national quotations plus normal marketing costs are eligible for an automatic subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mex ico to private banks for resale to goldsmiths or manu­ facturers in Mex ico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by the Bank of Mex ico. Imports of gold are subject to import license from the Bank of Mex ico. Changes during 1976 January 1. The import surcharge applicable to virtually a ll imports was increased from 1 per cent to 2 per cent ad valorem. 1 On M a r ch 23, 1977 the Bank of Mexico announced that hence­ forth only specified credit institutions {financieras) would be allowed to accept foreign currency time deposits. The interest rate could not exceed the corresponding London interest rate by more than 1.25 per­ centage points. 316 January 1. The import licensing requirements intro­ duced in 1975 were extended. However, the number of goods exempt from import license was increased from 430 to 4,286. F or the 3,535 items that remained subject to import license, the licensing requirement was extended to June 30, 1976, December 31, 1977, or December 31, 1979, depending on the country of origin or the area of destination in Mex ico. January 1. The federal withholding tax on loans from foreign banks and companies registered with the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit was increased from 10 per cent to 21 per cent. The corresponding rate for loans from unregistered lenders became 42 per cent. January 1. The monetary stabilization agreement of 1941 between the Bank of Mex ico and the U . S. Depart­ ment of the Treasury was extended for two years to the end of 1977. The credit ceiling was raised from US$200 m i l l ion to US$300 m i l l ion. January 29. The import licensing requirement was eliminated for additional commodities. February 7. The Na t ional Foreign Investment Com­ mission announced several new measures affecting the treatment of foreign investment. W i th respect to in-bond industries, certain activities were brought under the Foreign Investment Law and had to be registered with the Na t ional Foreign Investment Register. Foreign investors subscribing to or buying shares issued to increase a Mex ican firm's capital had to maintain unchanged the M a r ch 9, 1973 ratio of the nominal value of their investment to the capital of the issuing firm. Foreign investment in expansion projects in companies with majority foreign ownership required prior authorization by the Na t ional Foreign Invest­ ment Commission or by the appropriate ministry. Trusts in which foreign investors held sufficient shares to give them a deciding vote had to be registered with the Na t ional Foreign Investment Register. February 11. A new Patents and Trademarks Law came into force. It replaced the Industrial Property Law of 1942. March 22. The Bank of Mex ico authorized the credit institutions to accept foreign currency time deposits (three or six months) from residents of any part of Mex ico, rather than, as previously, only from residents of the northern border area. April 26. A decree was published modifying that of M a r ch 12, 1974 regarding small and medium-sized industrial firms in the border areas and the free zone areas. Add i t ional tax incentives were granted and the northern border area was extended by 20 kilometers. June 18. Add i t ional incentives were granted to small and medium-sized in-bond industries; their products assembled from imported parts could henceforth be sold in Mex ico, but only in the northern border zone and in the free zones. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland expired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 15. The Bank of Mex ico revoked the require­ ment of repayment of at least 50 per cent of import financing w i th a maturity in excess of two and a half years for capital goods, when the amount of the financ­ ing exceeded Mex$2 m i l l ion. September 1. The Mex ican peso ceased to be pegged to the U . S. dollar at Mex$ 12.50 = US$1 and was allowed to float. The Bank of Mex ico set its initial intervention rates at Mex$20 .40 buying, and Mex$20.60 selling, respectively, per US $ 1. It was announced that no exchange controls would be introduced and that cen­ tral bank intervention in the exchange market would be designed mainly to prevent erratic and speculative fluctuations. September 2. Transactions with Costa R i c a, El Sal­ vador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua under the reciprocal credit agreements with those countries were suspended. September 3. The M in is t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit decided to reimburse producers of manufactured goods for the indirect taxes on their sales in the northern border area and in the free zones. September 6. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit decided to reimburse Mex ican firms and natural persons for the taxes resulting from their activities in the export of technology and technical services. September 6. The indirect tax rebate regime (CEDIS) was suspended with a few exceptions, mainly for exports of technology and technical services. A number of other export incentives were abolished. September 8. Export taxes were increased to a range of 1V2-20 per cent, w i th the exception mainly of the tax on petroleum, wh ich remained at 50 per cent, and the tax on coffee, which was increased to 40 per cent. It was announced that export taxes would be auto­ matically adjusted in line with exchange rate modifica­ tions. September 8. Export duties ranging from Mex$0.15 to Mex$2.75 a legal kilogram were levied on the value added in Mex ico to temporarily imported goods exported by in-bond plants. September 8. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit revoked the lists of products on which indirect taxes could be rebated for sales in the northern border zones and in the free zones. September 8. Import duties on a wide variety of goods were eliminated or reduced substantially. Duties henceforth ranged from 2 per cent to 75 per cent. It was officially estimated that the average tariff rate fell from 20 per cent to 9 per cent. September 12. Export taxes, except that on petro­ leum, were lowered to a range of 6 ^ - 38 per cent. September 13. The Bank of Mex ico, without aban­ doning its policy of managed floating, announced a tentative quotation for the U . S. dollar of Mex$ 19.70 buying and Mex$ 19.90 selling, respectively, per U S $ 1. M E X I CO September 13. The export tax on lead, zinc, copper, sulfur, and a few other metals and minerals was reduced from IV2 per cent to 5 per cent. September 15. The import licensing requirement was eliminated for 683 tariff items. September 16. It was reconfirmed that no exchange controls would be introduced. September 20. It was announced that the Government had made arrangements with the U . S. Department of the Treasury and the U . S. Federal Reserve System under which up to US$600 m i l l ion would be available to the Bank of Mex ico to counter disorderly exchange market conditions during a transition period pending receipt of medium-term financing from the I M F. These funds were additional to the existing US$300 m i l l ion agree­ ment with the U . S. Treasury and the US$360 m i l l ion credit line with the Federal Reserve System. September 24. The M in is t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit decided that the customs administration could authorize increases in the value of import licenses required by the managed float of the Mex ican peso. September 29. It was announced that the Bank of Mex ico had established a special credit line of Mex$4 b i l l ion to enable banks to support Mexican-owned firms with large foreign and domestic currency liabilities. October 20. The first meeting was held of the joint committee set up under the cooperation agreement with the Counc il for Mu tual Economic Assistance. October 21. A three-year economic and technical cooperation agreement was signed with the U .S .S .R. It was renewable for similar periods. October 25. The Ministries of Finance and Pub l ic Credit and of Industry and Commerce revoked the provisions creating and increasing various ad valorem quotas in the export tariff of September 8. October 26. The Bank of Mex ico announced that, with effect from October 27, it would not necessarily intervene in the exchange market to maintain the exchange rate within the limits of Mex$ 19.70 buying and Mex$ 19.90 selling, per US $ 1. Banking institutions, in their dollar transactions with the public, were required to observe daily a spread of at most 1 per cent between their average buying and selling rates. They were also required to maintain normal foreign exchange positions and to report to the Bank of Mex ico on a daily basis their foreign currency assets and liabilities. October 26. The export tax of 6V2 per cent on manu­ factured and semimanufactured products was removed, and that on certain raw materials was lowered from 18 per cent to 9 per cent. The rates of export tax for petroleum and minerals remained at 50 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. A number of processed prod­ ucts such as shrimp and honey, were subject to a 5 per cent tax. The duty was 38 per cent for coffee and 40 per cent for cotton. Tax rebates of 10 per cent were introduced for exporters of certain manufactured goods. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M E X I CO October 27. The Bank of Mex ico quoted new rates for the U . S. dollar of Mex$26.24 buying and Mex$26.50 selling, per U S $ 1. October 28. An agreement w i th Spain to facilitate mutual trade was renewed. November 6. Most manufactured goods subject to export licensing requirements were exempted from license. Add i t ional facilities were announced for the import of goods used in the production and packing of exports. CEDIS would be granted more widely, but on a selective basis, to individual industries and industrial products. November 9. In view of the floating of the peso, the Bank of Mex ico took the following measures in respect of international transactions: (1) It authorized the renewal, for up to 180 days, of financing that credit institutions in Mex ico had obtained prior to September 1 from banks abroad. (2) It authorized borrowing from banks abroad that would permit domestic institutions to receive advances against documents sent to international banks. (3) It established maximum commissions of 3 per m i ll and 5 per m i l l, respectively, for the purchase of remittances from the Un i ted States and from other foreign countries. November 10. The M in is t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit revoked its decision of September 6 authorizing the customs authority in the border areas to apply to in-bond plants export duty on the value added in Mex ico, in respect of temporarily imported goods. November 16. The Government arranged a US$800 m i l l ion medium-term credit in the Eurocurrency market. November 22. Banks and other credit institutions were instructed to refrain until further notice from buying and selling foreign exchange and gold coins other than for the account of brokerage houses. A ll natural and juridical persons other than credit institu­ tions remained free to enter into foreign exchange transactions, on freely agreed terms. Withdrawals from domestic foreign currency accounts also remained unrestricted. A foreign exchange market operated by brokerage houses and specially authorized agents was established, in which the opening rate was Mex$27.00 buying and Mex$28.00 selling, per US $ 1. The next day, the closing rates were Mex$24.50 buying and Mex$25.50 selling, per US $ 1. November 22. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Public Credit notified the Na t ional Securities Commission that securities brokers, mainly those owned by banks, would be authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions in their offices, as foreign exchange dealers (oficinas de cambio), subject to daily reporting to the Bank of Mex ico. November 23. In accordance w i th a decree declaring small and medium-sized border industries to be of national interest, the Minister of Industry and Com­ merce announced ten new projects for the creation of in-bond plants in the northern border area. December 1. The incoming President in his inaugural address stated that the free convertibility of the peso would be maintained. He also announced that minting of silver coins would be resumed, to offer residents an attractive savings alternative. December 3. The swap agreement for US$360 mil­ l ion with the U . S. Federal Reserve System was extended until December 2, 1977. December 19. Details were announced about the issue in early 1977 of a 100-peso silver co in. December 20. Banks and other credit institutions were allowed again to buy and sell foreign currency and gold coins for their own account at freely determined exchange rates. P r ior to the announcement, the exchange rate had appreciated to Mex$20.00 buying and Mex$20.20 selling, per U S $ 1. December 22. A separate M in i s t ry of Commerce was created. Certain powers relating to tariff policy and export incentives were transferred from the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit to the new M in is try, by a law to enter into force on January 1, 1977. December 24. L A F TA decided to begin placing Latin Amer ican banking acceptances (ABLA S) in the New Y o rk market. The Bank of Mex ico accordingly author­ ized a system for the placement of such paper, which came into force on January 1, 1977. December 24. The Bank of Mex ico signed a pay­ ments agreement with the Central Bank of Iran. It came into force on January 1, 1977. December 31. A new law governing the public debt came into force. The prior authorization of the M in is try of Finance and Pub l ic Credit was required for a ll borrowing abroad by government agencies. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan D i rham. The Bank of Mo rocco quotes daily buying and selling rates for the French franc; its rates for the franc are determined in the light of quotations for certain major currencies on the official exchange market in Paris and taking into account the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade transactions. The Bank of Mo rocco also quotes buying and selling rates for specified "convertible currencies," 1 based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad and the Bank of Morocco's daily quotation for the French franc. In addition, the Bank quotes daily buying and selling rates for the Tunisian dinar. The rates of the Bank of Mo rocco for the U . S. dollar on Decem­ ber 31, 1976 were DH 4.4730 buying, and DH 4.4955 selling, per US$1 and those for the French franc were DH0.90146 buying, and DH 0.90416 selling, per F l. A ll sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen­ tralized in the Bank of Mo rocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (offset) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must pur­ chase from or sell to the Bank of Mo rocco each day, at the rates communicated to them by the Bank, the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Mo rocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, C FA francs, the "convertible currencies," and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replen­ ish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Fo rwa rd exchange transactions are not permitted. Foreign currency repatriated in the form of transfers to a bank or postal account by Moroccan workers abroad is eligible for a premium of 5 per cent payable on the dirham equivalent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the M in is t ry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of C om­ merce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos. pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 2 Finnish markkaa, Iranian rials, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Saudi A rab ian riyals, and U . A . E. dirhams. L ibyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Mo ro c co. Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc­ tion between the French Franc A r ea and the so-called area of convertibility, Mo rocco applies exchange control also to transactions with the former .3 F or prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc A rea countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Mo rocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;4 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with the French F ranc A rea are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc A r ea Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low); certain noncommercial settlements with A lge r ia, how­ ever, are made in dirhams or A lger ian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks, and all settle­ ments with Tunisia are made through accounts denomi­ nated in convertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agree­ ment accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of M o r o c c o .5 Other settlements with coun­ tries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Mo ro c­ can currency in the names of residents of countries of the French Franc A rea. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the French Franc A rea, except for the payment for imports (and :J Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. * Gu inea, M a l i, and U . S . S .R. Un t il further notice, special regulations apply to payments for imports of Egyptian origin; 40 per cent of such payments must be effected through the account established under the terminated bilateral payments agreement and 60 per cent in "convertible currencies." 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M O R O C CO related invisibles) from those countries.0 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Mo rocco. Transfers between French Franc A rea Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con­ vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Mo rocco and for pur­ chases from the Bank of Mo rocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Mo rocco for central banks (or similar institu­ tions) of the countries with which Mo rocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, includ­ ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non­ resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans­ ferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan securi­ ties held under foreign dossier and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to (1) coun­ tries either in the area of convertibility or the French Franc A rea or (2) the same country in the payments agreement group, are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for (1) pur­ chases of specified 5Vi per cent, seven-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transfer­ able, and the bonds are freely negotiable between non­ residents; and (2) personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Mo rocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a l im it of DH 5,000 a year for each account. A ll other operations through Cap i tal Accounts require individual approval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securi­ ties; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of participation in a Moroccan firm; sub­ scriptions to either; investments of any k ind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to resi­ dents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 during the account holder's stay in Mo rocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative of his; any such payments from an account held by a foreign jur id ical person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscriptions to capital increases of Mo roccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; subscrip­ tions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term securities w i th a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Mo rocco. Subject to approval, Cap i tal Accounts may also be debited for investments in Mo rocco, within the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Moreover, balances held in "o r ig ina l" Capital Accounts by nonresident natural persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding DH 10,000 on May 31, 1975 have been declared transferable abroad as follows, subject to prior authorization by the Exchange Office: balances not exceeding DH 3,000, during 1976; those between DH 3,001 and DH 7,000, during the first half of 1977; and those between DH 7,001 and DH 10,000, during the second half of 1977. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi­ dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Mo rocco for the Central Bank of A lge r ia and the Central Bank of Tun is ia. Only cer­ tain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and A lger ia are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of A lge r ia. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in L ist A are liberal­ ized. Goods in L ist B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of L ist B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB items). In principle, the importation of goods in L ist C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in L ist A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement a"importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,7 but for goods in List B, an import license (autorisation d'importation or certificat a"importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. 6 Imports from the French Franc A r e a, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for with French francs purchased from the Bank of Morocco. 7 C.i.f. approval. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commit­ ments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled within 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are appli­ cable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Most imports from countries in the payments agree­ ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import or export documents. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Mo rocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his family does not reside in Mo rocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in M o r o c c o .8 The same percentages of their monthly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions; except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. Subject to a monthly limit of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the mining sector are authorized to transfer between 60 and 80 per cent of their monthly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do 8 For all wages and salaries of the private sector, monthly transfers which exceed by more than DH 100 the amount transferred in June 1976 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. M O R O C CO not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nation­ ality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. F or business travel by persons other than exporters a standard allowance of the equivalent of DH 250 a day is granted, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters may obtain up to DH 300 a day, up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, within a ceiling of 3 per cent of the foreign exchange repatriated during the pre­ ceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. F or study abroad, a monthly allocation of for­ eign exchange up to DH 834 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Mo rocco; Mo roccan students taking college or univer­ sity level courses abroad are entitled to an annual instal­ lation allowance equivalent to DH 1,000. F or family maintenance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allo­ cation generally of DH 300. The export of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. A ll fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d 'Expo r t a t ion —OCE ). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. A ll exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial con­ tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Mo rocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions, and only when they accrue in for­ eign currencies other than those of the French F ranc 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M O R O C CO A rea. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies within one month of re-entry, but are per­ mitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the currencies so purchased may also include French francs); they are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the dirham equivalent of any foreign exchange repatriated in the form of transfers to a bank or a postal account. The importation of Mo ro c­ can banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes; foreign exchange brought in in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travel­ ers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as compa­ nies established in Mo rocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittances in respect of the assets of emigrants and transfers of gifts are not normally approved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Those for the transfer of their assets by repatriates vary with the length of their stay in Mo rocco, from DH 35,000 a family with family residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a family where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit from the provisions of the Invest­ ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code consists of six laws and several implementing decrees providing various tax concessions and other incentives. It guar­ antees the transfer of dividends distributed to nonresi­ dents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds from the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become transferable after a minimum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit from the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds from the liquidation of other invest­ ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Cap i tal Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi­ dents. A ll other transactions in securities involving non­ resident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad within the frame­ work of Dah ir N o. 1-74-385 of August 5, 1974 and the 322 Orders issued for its implementation. Under this facility, they may accept convertible currency funds from non­ residents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, pro­ vided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period; the rate of interest paid by banks on deposits received must not exceed that received by them on the placing made for their account. Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face value of DH 250 has been issued, which is legal tender. Resi­ dents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Mo rocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, wh ich does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authori­ zation by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, to which the M in i s t ry of Finance has delegated its approval authority. Every year the M in is t ry fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. G o ld jewelry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1976 January 1. An agreement of November 20, 1975 between the Bank of Mo rocco and the Central Bank of Tunisia came into force which revoked and replaced the agreement between the two institutions of June 26, 1972. A ll settlements between the two countries were to take place in Mo roccan dirhams or Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams or Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Invoicing also had to take place in these currencies. January 5. Notice to Importers N o. 01-76 was pub­ lished containing the General Import Program for 1976. It provided for some further liberalization. In contrast to previous years, the program shifted a relatively large number of items from one import list to another. January 5. The Bank of Mo rocco began daily quota­ tions, buying and selling, for the Tunisian dinar. April 27. A cooperation agreement and an interim agreement were signed with the E E C. June 17. Exchange Office C i rcu lar N o. 1.308 announced the termination of the bilateral payments agreement with Egypt, in accordance with a protocol of June 6. W i th effect from July 1, Egypt was shifted from the payments agreement group to the area of converti­ bility, and settlements with that country were to take place in convertible currencies. However, until further notice 40 per cent of the value of imports from Egypt had to be settled through the bilateral account, and 60 per cent in convertible currencies. C i rcu lar N o. 1.158 of December 29, 1966 was revoked. September 29. Exchange Office Notice N o. 158 eased restrictions on the use of balances in Cap i tal Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution held by nonresident natural persons of foreign nation­ ality, provided that the balance on M ay 31, 1975 d id not exceed DH 10,000. The measure was applicable only to "original accounts" (comptes d'origine) opened before M ay 31 ,1975 and containing the account holder's own funds, not funds gratuitously acquired from other nonresidents. The Exchange Office allowed such bal­ ances to be transferred as follows: those not exceeding DH 3,000 could be transferred during 1976; those between DH 3,001 and DH 7,000, during the first half of 1977; and those between DH 7,001 and DH 10,000, during the second half of 1977. M O R O C CO 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NE PAL (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0808408 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee. On February 20, 1973 a central rate was established of N Rs 12.7390 = SDR 1, correspond­ ing at the time to N Rs 10.56 = U S $ 1, and Nepal avails itself of wider margins. Since October 9, 1975, however, the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) has maintained fixed buying and selling rates for U . S. do l­ lars of N Rs 12.45 buying, and N Rs 12.55 selling, per US$1. The Bank also quotes fixed rates for the Indian rupee, at N Rs 139.00 buying, and N Rs 139.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Da i ly buying and selling rates are quoted for Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs and only buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Italian lire, and Swedish kronor. Different effective exchange rates arise from the operation of an Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. Residents may freely pur­ chase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of rep­ resentatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank and the Ministries of Finance, Foreign Affairs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions with the countries with which clearing arrangements exist. Permission is required from the M in i s t ry of Finance for all foreign pay­ ments, except for certain specified payments that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. A ll exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank L t d. and the Rastriya Banijya Bank. W i th in Nepal there are 95 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase for­ eign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. A ll import and export transactions with payments agreement countries, as we ll as all barter trade, are conducted through a state trading agency, the Na t ional Trad ing L t d. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. 324 Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the As ian C lear ing Un ion except India (Bangladesh, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in As ian monetary units through the Asian C lear ing U n i o n. Payments for imports from India normally are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such imports at the recommendation of the M in is t ry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal .has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Pakistan, and Po land; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. The agree­ ment w i th Pakistan is inoperative. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks, the balances of wh ich may be freely transferred abroad. Indian nationals are allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees w i th Nepalese banks. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited w i th a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of goods except those originating in India require import licenses from the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetable o i l, margarine, animal fat, beef, woolen carpets, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of August 15, 1971, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may in principle be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their reexportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in Ind ia ), and reimbursement of tax is made by the Gov­ ernment of India to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of commodities subject to excise duty in India. W i th the exception noted below, applications to the M in i s t ry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; any application must, however, be in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget.1 Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); the entitlements are transferable and may be used by other holders. Many imports payable in convertible currencies and most government imports are effected through state trading agencies, mainly the National Trading L t d. and the Ag r icu l tu ral Input Corporation. A ll imports settled through the banking system must be made on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from a ll sources are subject import surcharges. to Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2 ,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is pro­ hibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought i n; however, non­ residents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. There is also a tem­ porary prohibition on exports of oilseeds and edible oils. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-exports to any destination of goods imported from India are proh ib i ted .2 A ll other goods, except rice, may be exported freely to India. A ll exports to other destinations require export licenses. The Jute Development and Trad ing Corporation effects certain 1 Import licenses are not normally issued to the private sector except against exporters' exchange entitlements, unless the goods involved are raw materials and machinery to be imported by industrial firms for their own use. 2 Under the Trade and Transit Treaty with India, national origin for manufactured products is defined in terms of the import content of the ex-factory value. N E P AL exports of raw jute, but it does not have a monopoly over such exports. Eight regional Rice Export Co r­ porations have a monopoly over exports of rice. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro­ portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. Entitlements are negotiable. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade (i.e., the Na t ional Trad ing L t d. when selling to countries w i th which Nepal maintains payments agreements) are granted entitle­ ments corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earnings; in principle, 40 per cent of these earnings may be used for imports of their choice from the partner country concerned, while the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the partner country concerned. For virtually all exports to convertible currency countries, exchange entitlements are granted at ratios of 45 per cent or 60 per cent. At least 10 per cent of the entitlement must be used to purchase goods on a list of development goods, up to 70 per cent may be used to purchase consumer goods, and up to 20 per cent may be spent on any type of goods including luxuries. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an autho­ rized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. F or extension of visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in i­ mum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank­ notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but offi­ c ial exchange is not normally provided for capital remit­ tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investments specifically exempted by government notice 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E P AL published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include investments abroad by any banking or financial institu­ tion incorporated in Nepal and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Industrial Enterprise A c t, 1974 provides certain incentives for foreign investment in Nepa l. Foreign investors who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the pr inc ipa l; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form in Nepa l. No import licenses for gold are issued under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of N Rs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 10 per cent. Changes during 1976 January 19. The concession introduced on M a r ch 2, 1973 to collect customs duties at the rate of 1 per cent only on pneumatic rubber sheets and leather imported by shoe factories for use as raw material was withdrawn. January 28. The M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce issued a decree that, for every 100 tons of raw jute exports, private traders have to export 30 tons of jute goods. February 17. A new licensing policy was instituted for trade with Tibet giving priority to traders in the border area. March 22. A ban was imposed on the export of unpasteurized ghee from the Lumb ini zone. March 26. The export of surplus chandi jute, jute cuttings, and cut ropes to India was permitted. April 2. Four agreements were signed w i th Bangla­ desh on trade, transit arrangements, technical coopera­ tion, and air services. April 22. Tourists were required to furnish evidence of conversion of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay in Nepal for extension of visas. April 30. The trade agreement w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina was extended for another ten years. August 14. The Trade and Transit Treaty of Au­ gust 15, 1971 with India expired. Nepal and India agreed to extend this treaty until a new treaty is signed. December 13. The permissible ratios and categories of imported goods for export entitlement holders were changed as follows: 10 per cent of the entitlement must be used for industrial and agricultural machinery and parts, industrial materials, and chemicals and transport equipment; up to 70 per cent may be used to purchase consumer goods; and up to 20 per cent may be used for purchases of luxury goods. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Gu i lde r. On September 17, 1973, the Netherlands established a central rate of f. 3.35507 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.264874 gram of fine gold per Netherlands guilder. The Netherlands avails itself of wider margins. A maximum margin of 2!4 per cent is maintained for exchange rates in the official market between the Netherlands guilder and the Belgian franc, the Dan ish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies.1 The authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were f. 2.45575 and f. 2.45825, respectively, per US $ 1. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, and incon­ vertible currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Fo rwa rd exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other resi­ dents, including authorized banks, and they may con­ clude forward transactions for any period with autho­ rized banks. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are per­ mitted to hold accounts (normally demand deposits only) in their own names with banks abroad; over­ drafts on the latter accounts are not allowed. The K ingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are sub­ ject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries w i th which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands An t i l les constitute the Netherlands Monetary A r e a. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agr icu l ture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- Export Agency ( C D I U) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the C D I U .2 A ll commer­ c ial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. F or a ll payments to, or receipts from, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, nonbank residents as well as non- authorized banks have to indicate, by submitting an exchange control form, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. There are special regulations, however, for pay­ ments in respect of certain direct imports from Egyp t .3 A ll payments and credits, whether direct or indirect, from the Netherlands to Rhodesia are prohibited unless a license is granted by the Netherlands Bank. Since there are no bilateral payments agreements, a ll foreign countries are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area may be obtained in any convertible currency or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Gu i lder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited w i th an authorized bank or held in a permitted foreign account. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Nether­ lands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary w i th an autho­ rized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The principal nonresident guilder accounts are Con­ vertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, xT he currencies quoted in the Amsterdam market include Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 2 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the E E C, of scrap. Transit trade (merchanting) involving Rhodesia is prohibited. •"• Fifty per cent of these payments are used to settle Netherlands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS w i th proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur­ rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services ren­ dered to any country and for other permitted transac­ tions, including purchases of foreign currencies. B a l­ ances may be transferred to any other nonresident account. However, Convertible Gu i lder Accounts may not be debited for the purchase of Netherlands treasury paper or guilder bank acceptances. Convertible Gu i lder Accounts held by residents of Rhodesia are of two kinds: R Accounts (for payments w i th in the Netherlands, which are freely permitted) and Special Accounts (through which external payments must be made, subject to special license). Special licenses for debits or credits to the latter are granted only for the exceptional cases referred to in the relevant UN Resolution. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic U n i on are free from import licenses. V i r tua l ly all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong K o n g, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly in the agricultural and textile sectors, when not of E EC origin. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. C om­ modities corresponding to some 19 tariff headings or subheadings are subject to quantitative restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from n o n -EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common E EC regulations are also applied to imports from n o n -EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Imports of cattle and beef from " th i rd" countries are in pr in­ ciple suspended. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities,4 but they require prior approval from the Netherlands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those traditional in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, 4 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. 328 if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resident traveling abroad may in addition have any further amounts remitted to h im through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by resi­ dent travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonresidents may export a ll unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly a ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those wh ich are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic char­ acter, and for some agricultural products, scrap of iron and steel, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities,4 but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery where such advance payments are not tradi­ tional in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained, however, to hold a bank account abroad, to which export proceeds may be credited and import payments debited; in most cases, balances in excess of a stipulated maximum amount must be trans­ ferred periodically to the Netherlands. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected through an authorized bank but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained on application to hold a foreign currency account w i th a bank abroad, to which account proceeds from invisibles may be credited. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlim­ ited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign bank­ notes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an autho­ rized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Most external capital transactions by nonbank resi­ dents, whether involving foreign or domestic capital, require a specific license from the Netherlands Bank. The main transactions permitted by general licenses are (1) purchases and sales (except issues) of officially listed stocks and bonds, (2) loans granted or received that do not exceed f. 100,000, provided that the resi­ dent does not lend or borrow more than f. 100,000 a year to or from the same nonresident, and (3) suppliers' and customers' credits granted or received, subject to certain limitations (see sections on Imports and Import Payments and Exports and Export Proceeds, above). At the end of 1976, borrowing abroad by nonbank residents continued to be restricted for reasons of mone­ tary, credit, and exchange rate policy, while capital exports continued to be stimulated. In general, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment or the purchase of real estate, see below) is permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct investment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of newly founded or existing companies, direct investment is considered to include intercompany financial loans with a fixed term of at least five years from the foreign parent company. Under certain con­ ditions, loans from other affiliated foreign companies (i.e., sister companies or subsidiaries) are also being licensed. Other financial borrowing —whether by way of issuing bonds and notes abroad or by way of borrowing from foreign banks —is, in principle, not allowed unless the proceeds are kept abroad and used for investments abroad (which are considered to include purchases of ships and a ircraf t). However, companies work ing on the Netherlands' part of the Continental Shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are allowed to take up foreign bank loans (with a fixed term of at least five years) up to two thirds of their financing requirements. Resident units of international companies are permitted upon request to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad, mainly for the stipulated purpose of intercompany commercial credit (which is subject to the same rules as suppliers' and customers' cred i t). Short-term foreign bank credit for the financing of imports is licensed (when there is no domestic credit restriction in force) if it is directly con­ nected w i th a specific import transaction; for long-term financing, importers are referred to the domestic credit market. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Netherlands treasury paper and bank acceptances denominated in guilders are prohibited. Most lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is liberally per­ mitted on application. Requested public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital N E T H E R L A N DS market (the market for debt certificates or onderhandse leningen), nonresidents are in principle allowed to take up loans from institutional investors, but their access to such loans has been suspended since June 1976.5 Nonbank residents are not normally allowed to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short-term nego­ tiable instruments. Outward direct investment by resi­ dents is authorized on application. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct investments is free under general license. Repayment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any relevant stipulations in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in a ll stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase offi­ cially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are gov­ erned by the rules applicable to direct investment and require a special license. Residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euromarket if denominated in guilders and issued by nonresidents. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad only if the proceeds are not brought into the Netherlands (see above). The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by non­ residents (except Rhodesians) are transferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; for the exporta­ tion of listed guilder bonds, residents need a license, which is granted upon application. Domestic and for­ eign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application; securities held in the Ne th­ erlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi­ dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Mortgage loans between residents and nonresidents in connection with these real estate transactions are mostly free under general license or licensed on application. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.c> Em i­ grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from 5 The private placement market was reopened to nonresident borrow­ ers with effect from January 3, 1977, subject to the following condi­ tions. The maximum size of each loan was set at f. 75 million and the minimum largest maturity at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal installments. A queue system with an issue calender for nonresident borrowers would be used to ensure an orderly market. 0 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds trans­ ferred to them freely. The curtailment of external borrowing is also applied to the authorized banks. A ny net foreign indebtedness on their part is restricted by the "five m i l l ion regulation," which prescribes that the total of each bank's spot for­ eign liabilities (regardless of denomination or maturity) must not at any time exceed its total spot foreign assets by more than f. 5 m i l l ion. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank twice a month the totals of their spot assets and liabilities, broken down into guilders and a ll foreign currencies combined. In addition, banks must maintain a balanced total position (i.e., spot plus forward position) in each foreign currency. They are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresidents, respec­ tively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents are forwarded to the Ne th­ erlands Bank. Banks are free, under general licenses, in their lending to foreign banks and, for maturities up to one year, to foreign nonbanks; longer-term lending is usually permitted on request. Banks are free to pay customary rates of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, and to establish guilder time or savings deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents. Thus, their freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents (including foreign currency demand or time deposits) and to borrow abroad is unrestricted, provided the l im it set by the "five m i l l ion regulation" is observed. A ll capital transfers in excess of f. 3,000 by nonbank residents, whether permitted under general license or specific license, must be notified to the Balance of Pay­ ments Department of the Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepayments exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if trans­ actions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Authorized banks must report their own investments and loans. Resulting totals of foreign exchange dealings and deposit transactions are reported periodically. Gold Certain prewar gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. The Netherlands Bank engages in gold trans­ actions only with monetary authorities and international financial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any govern­ ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the for­ eign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports 330 and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value- added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medal­ lions and commemorative coins is 18 per cent; sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quan­ tities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong K o n g, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1976 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with E EC decisions, directives, and regu­ lations; most of these related to textiles or beef and veal. January 1. The prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits in Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, as we ll as the prohibition on the establishment by non­ residents of guilder time or savings deposits were revoked. Au thor ized banks and savings banks also were freely permitted to pay customary rates of interest on guilder time and savings deposits of nonresidents. January 1. Export credit insurance was exempted from the insurance tax. January 2. The margin by which banks' total commit­ ments under the export financing arrangement between the Netherlands Bank and the authorized banks could exceed the ceiling of f. 1.5 b i l l ion was increased from 25 per cent to 45 per cent. On A p r il 1, the margin was further widened to 65 per cent, and on September 1 to 80 per cent. January 6. Convertible Gu i lder Accounts held by residents of Rhodesia were separated into R Accounts (for payments within the Netherlands, which were freely permitted) and Special Accounts (through which external payments had to be made, subject to special license). January 29. It was announced that additional export finance up to a total to f. 50 m i l l ion would be made available, for sales of capital goods to non -EEC coun­ tries only. In principle, this special aid could not exceed f. 5 m i l l ion for each transaction. February 11. Exports of potatoes to non -EEC coun­ tries were prohibited. On February 18, the ban was replaced by an export levy. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement. Accord­ ingly, the Netherlands ceased to observe maximum margins of 2LA per cent for the French franc. At the same time, the special Benelux arrangement was ter­ minated under which Belgium and the Netherlands had maintained maximum margins of 1 Vi per cent rather than IVAT per cent for each other's currencies. March 16. New rules came into effect for the issue of licenses for the exploration and exploitation of petro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS leum and natural gas in the Netherlands section of the Continental Shelf. April 28. Au thor ized banks and licensed exchange dealers were prohibited from acquiring Italian bank­ notes in denominations of L it 50,000 and L it 100,000. April 29. The redemption took place of the final installment of the Government's foreign debt. May 28. The licensing of borrowing by nonresidents in the domestic private placement market was tempo­ rarily suspended. The market was reopened to non­ resident borrowers on January 3, 1977. June 11. Imports of apples from n o n -EEC sources were suspended. August 1. Imports of cut flowers from n o n -EEC countries became subject to licensing. September 20. The exchange rate risk insurance scheme was extended to the Saudi A rab ian r iya l. October 1. The standard rate of value-added tax was increased from 16 per cent to 18 per cent. October 18. An exchange rate realignment took place w i th in the European common margins arrangement. The central rate for the Netherlands guilder and its rela­ tionship to the European monetary unit of account were maintained unchanged. The intervention rates for the other currencies participating in the arrangement were modified accordingly, with the exception of those for the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc, which remained unchanged. October 22. In order to avoid substantial further increases in the total value of Euroguilder notes out­ standing in the international private placement market, a ceiling of roughly f. 900 m i l l ion was agreed upon for the total amount to be licensed for placements (by residents and nonresidents together) during 1977, cor­ responding to one placement of f. 75 m i l l ion a month. The ceiling of f. 1,300 m i l l ion for 1976 (agreed upon in October 1975) was not quite reached as activity abated due to international currency unrest. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherland Antilles Gu i lde r .1 The gold content of the currency has been established at 0.411543 gram of fine gold. The central rate is An t. f. 1.7900 per U S $ 1, and the Netherlands Antilles avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U . S. dollar. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at An t. f. 1.79 buying, and An t. f. 1.81 selling, per US $ 1, plus a tax of %o of 1 per cent on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U . S. dollar An t. f. 1.8245 per U S $ 1 .2 The official buying and selling rates for certain other cur­ rencies are set daily on the basis of rates for the U . S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at interbank rates. It does not normally deal with the public. Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances,3 but authorized banks have been granted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The central bank may grant an exemp­ tion from the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents and are not being held in favor of, or on behalf of, or for the account of, third parties who are residents; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until further notice or until revocation by the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. F or statistical purposes, a ll payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange as well as a ll receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. 1 In the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maarten, the Nether­ lands Antilles guilder and the U . S. dollar circulate concurrently. 2 Foreign exchange purchased by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes is exempt from the exchange tax. 3 A ll currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are con­ sidered foreign currencies. 332 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including foreign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands An t i l les guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Neth­ erlands An t i l les which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not without central bank approval exceed A n t. f. 10,000. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo­ sives, are subject to license for public policy reasons. Imports into the islands of A rub a, Bonaire, and Curacao of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances, are subject to licensing by the Department of Econom ic Affairs, while commercial imports of passenger automobiles built prior to the production year November 1, 1975-October 31, 1976 are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies w i th nonresident status normally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in A rub a, Bonaire, and Curacao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required mainly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of A n t. f. 180 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal remittances in excess of A n t. f. 5,000 each or in excess of An t. f. 25,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take w i th them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands An t i l les banknotes is limited to A n t. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require licenses, wh ich are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (except those of firms w i th nonresident status) must in principle ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coins, since the domestic cur­ rency and the U . S. dollar circulate concurrently. Trav­ elers may bring with them checks, travelers checks, or banknotes in foreign currency in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in A n t. f. 200 in Nether­ lands An t i l les banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many com­ modities as well as tax facilities. New industrial com­ panies primarily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), includ­ ing exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies, patent holding companies, shipping companies, and insurance com­ panies. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. L i fe insurance con­ tracts in foreign currency between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position, but outward transfers of capital by life insurance com­ panies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domestic currency are freely permitted in any amount by virtue of general permissions granted to individual foreign insurers. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Ne th­ erlands An t i l les or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is freely allowed by a general permission; purchases of mutual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign cur­ rency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with nonresident status), or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons and banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign l iab i l i ty position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Nether­ lands An t i l les guilders. L o c al borrowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (including resident companies N E T H E R L A N DS A N T I L L ES regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold A commemorative gold coin of A n t. f. 200 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi­ dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permis­ sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus­ tr ial users. Changes during 1976 January 1. The import surcharges applicable in A rub a, Bonaire, and Curacao were for certain goods increased from 10 per cent or 16 per cent to 25!/2 per cent ad valorem. The surcharge on automobiles was raised from 20 per cent to 25Vi per cent. January 1. A number of additional items became subject to surcharges on importation in A rub a, Bonaire, and Curasao. F or most of these goods, import duties were increased on February 1. January 8. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of An t. f. 200 was issued. February 1. The tariff preferences on imports or ig i­ nating in the original member states of the E EC were abolished. March 2. The conditions ruling the status of "autho­ rized banks" were put in writing. The document included certain general permissions, some of which related to matters previously regulated by individual licenses, notably the power to invest or hold foreign currency balances. March 5. Existing exemptions and permissions under A r t ic le 17 and 18 of the Foreign Exchange Ordinance, 1940 were amended with effect from M a r ch 1 to include a clause 2 (d) to the effect that they became null and void if and when the company concerned ceased to be legally represented in any way in the Netherlands An t i l les. Companies that had already been granted an exemption and permission were required to inform the central bank in writing, by August 1, by whom or in what manner they were legally represented. March 11. Exchange Con t rol Notice 76/1 announced that w i th effect from A p r il 1 the central bank would allow insurance companies established abroad to con­ clude insurance contracts with residents on the basis of 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS A N T I L L ES individually granted general foreign exchange permis­ sions which provided that capital sum and premiums must be expressed in Netherlands Antilles guilders and that any payment of claims would be effected in the Netherlands An t i l les; individual permissions continued to be required to transfer the premiums abroad for investment. The general licenses were applicable to a ll types of insurance. Individual foreign exchange license also continued to be required for foreign currency insur­ ance contracts. June 16. The import into A rub a, Bonaire, and Curacao was prohibited of passenger automobiles built prior to the production year beginning November 1, 1975. Previously, the prohibition related to automobiles more than four years o ld. June 16. The value l im it beyond which passenger automobiles were subject to a surcharge of 25Vi per cent ad valorem upon importation into A rub a, Bonaire, and Curacao, was raised from A n t. f. 8,500 to A n t. f. 10,000. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Do l la r, corresponding to $NZ 0.892857 = SDR 1, and New Zealand avails itself of wider margins. Since July 9, 1973 no announced margins have been observed. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand adjusts the exchange rate for the U . S. dollar daily so as to maintain the effective relationship between the New Zealand dollar and the currencies of the main trading partners as at December 19, 1976. Except for the Aus­ tralian dollar and the pound sterling, the rates for spot transactions in currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the pound sterling is derived by crossing the U .S .-London rate quoted in New Y o rk with the New Zealand-U.S. rate. The outer limits for the banks' buy­ ing and selling rates for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were US$0.9550 and US$0.9450, respectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts for up to 12 months to cover both import and export transactions but can do so only within ten banking days of the exchange risk arising. Cover is not available for goods imported on consignment and nonresidents are not per­ mitted to obtain forward exchange cover. Forward transactions in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling take place at rates of exchange determined daily by the Reserve Bank and based on the closing buying and selling forward quotations of the previous day in L o n­ don. Forward exchange contracts written in U .S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted in the case of contracts covering imports with a loading of US$0.0050 a month on the spot rate. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U .S. dollars, spot and for­ ward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New Y o rk foreign exchange markets, against sterling or U .S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discre­ tionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission admin­ isters the regulations governing foreign direct invest­ ment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may generally be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from the accounts in New Zealand currency held w i th banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia also is a generally acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about 70 per cent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the annual Schedule are as fol­ lows: Category " E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lub r i­ cating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, specified sporting goods, tires, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt from licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Bas ic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by refer­ ence to qualifying licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period. Category " C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essen­ tiality, availability, and price; for some " C" items, how­ ever, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for further licenses are considered individually. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of impor­ tation for certain regularly required goods that corre­ spond to only part of an item code. Imports of com­ pletely knocked-down automobiles are subject to special arrangements. In order to assure continuity of imports of specific items (mainly raw materials and consumer goods), in the 1974/75 program, the Government under­ took that over a three-year period importers would receive licenses at least equal in value to the basic allo­ cation for 1974/75; existing commitments are honored 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. - Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree­ ment that came into force on January 1, 1966. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N EW Z E A L A ND but the scheme w i ll be allowed to lapse at the end of the initial three-year period. A ll licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion, except Rhodesia. Imports from Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of G roup Schemes (for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combina­ tion of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, v iz ., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of faulty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange in an appropriate currency available for pay­ ments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. An import deposit scheme was introduced on Febru­ ary 2, 1976 and w i ll remain in force until August 2, 1977. It applied to a range of finished consumer goods representing about 7 per cent of the value of total imports, until July 30, 1976 when the coverage of the scheme was reduced to about 5 per cent of total imports. Under the scheme importers are required to pay a deposit of one third of the value of their proposed imports. The deposit is held by the Reserve Bank for six months and repaid without interest. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of justifying documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by justifying documents. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a maximum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reason­ able requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above allocations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Aus tra l ia may sell foreign currencies, without l im it as to amount, to New 336 Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held foreign funds. A 10 per cent tax is payable on all tickets for overseas travel, except for travel to a few Pacific islands. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal authentication; for dividends and interest, the approval authority up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one remittee has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval and new commit­ ments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of mainte­ nance and /or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 500 a remitter, and applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits. A ny resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas except Rho­ desia, for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name, provided that no individual remittance exceeds $NZ 20. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 50 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 5. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th minor exceptions, a ll exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses va l id until December 31, 1982 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must, unless prior consent is obtained, be received w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Certain items classified as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and subse­ quent to the issue of a permit to export. Temporary restrictions have been imposed on exports of tallow and specified types of mutton. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United K ingdom are subject to annual quantitative restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub­ mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace­ ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components still subject to import con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution trol that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain conditions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufacture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported materials and/or components used in manufacture by the exporter. Exports of lamb receive a subsidy. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,8 their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, but such income is not e l i­ gible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins, provided that any New Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Wh i le overseas borrowing by financial institutions is controlled, consents are usually granted where the funds are required for industrial development purposes. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Cap i tal so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas bor­ rowing, repayments are not permitted until the expiry of the term for which the funds were borrowed and in any case not within 12 months of the receipt of the proceeds. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the * The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the pay­ ment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any k ind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). N EW Z E A L A ND Overseas Investment Commission, under the terms of the Overseas Investment Regulations, 1974. Cap i tal issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow­ ing by such companies also requires prior approval. Forward exchange facilities are available to cover bor­ rowings abroad by New Zealand companies in cases where the borrowings relate to specific approved projects which w i ll develop industries based on the extraction or processing of indigenous raw materials. A ny such forward exchange cover would be for the amount of the capital sum only and is normally limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 m i l l ion for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies which are more than 75 per cent overseas owned is normally restricted to 10 per cent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turn­ over. Companies which are predominantly but less than 75 per cent overseas owned may borrow locally, in addi­ tion, an amount in proportion to the level of their bor­ rowings from overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to give notice to, and seek the consent of, the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offeror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's voting capital. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer the whole of their assets to their new country of residence. A p p l i­ cations for the remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in fu l l. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail­ able to private persons or firms for the purchase of over­ seas securities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Government bonds purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be trans­ ferred from the Un i ted K ingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning overseas securities is free to sell them to overseas residents for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, surrendered, or retained at the dis­ posal of the New Zealand resident. W i th limited excep­ tions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N EW Z E A L A ND currency are those of any overseas country which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an approved depository (i.e., the Reserve Bank of New Zea land). These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in other overseas securities within three months and the resulting scrip deposited. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the G o ld Acqu is i t ion No t ice, 1948, it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Depart­ ment; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively, but the importa­ tion of gold coins is exempt from license. Changes during 1976 February 2. An import deposit scheme was intro­ duced on a range of finished consumer goods for a 12-month period. The items affected would represent some 7 per cent of the value of total imports. Under the scheme, importers were required to pay a deposit of one third of the value of their proposed imports. This deposit would be held by the Reserve Bank for 6 months and repaid without interest. March 3. Hire-purchase restrictions were tightened by abolishing credit buying of new cars and by further restricting credit buying of secondhand cars and color television receivers. March 23. It was announced that the import deposit requirement was to be waived with retroactive effect for all goods used for repair purposes (spares and service parts but not components for assembly). April 1. The timetable for the tariff review was brought forward. In order that the new tariff structure could be introduced as planned on July 1, 1978 all final submissions to the Review Committee were to be received by the end of October 1976, instead of by the end of February 1977, as originally indicated. April 2. The import licensing arrangements for the year July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1977 provided for basic allocations to be generally 100 per cent by value of the 1975/76 basic licenses. However, taking into account the devaluation of the New Zealand dollar and the increases in import prices, the volume of goods imported in 1976/77 was expected to be considerably less than in the preceding period. 338 The allocation for bicycles, Manchester goods, and canned pineapple was reduced to 75 per cent of 1975/76 licenses; maize, corn flour, and tires and tubes were allocated 50 per cent of 1975/76 licenses. April 4. The emergency action of A p r il 1975 with respect to imports of certain polyester fabrics was extended for 12 months. May 3. Several changes were introduced in the con­ ditions under wh ich forward exchange cover was made available. Exporters and importers wishing to cover their exchange risks could do so only within ten banking days of the risk arising. A ny risk not covered within that period ceased to be eligible for cover. The purpose of this change was to ensure that the facility was avail­ able to traders genuinely seeking to eliminate their risks, while reducing opportunities for speculative use of the system. The maximum period of cover for importers was extended from 6 to 12 months in line with the present export cover facility. Cover ceased to be available for goods imported on consignment and nonresidents were no longer able to obtain forward exchange cover. June 4. New Zealand and the Un i ted States formally signed the 1976 voluntary restraint agreement on beef imports to the Un i ted States. July 29. It was announced that with effect from A p r il 1, 1977, nonresident companies w i ll be subject to a company tax of 50 per cent, replacing the progressive scale now in effect. July 29. The terminating date for all existing export incentive schemes was extended to M a r ch 31, 1980. A range of new selective investment incentives was intro­ duced, including a 20 per cent investment allowance for new export-oriented plant and machinery. July 30. A 10 per cent tax was introduced on all overseas travel except a few Pacific islands, including F i j i, Tonga, and Western Samoa. The tax was payable on all tickets supplied in New Zealand. A ll vendors of foreign travel were required to be licensed and the tax was payable to them in New Zealand dollars at the time of purchase. As a general rule, only payments for overseas travel were taxable, which meant that in package tours payments for components representing accommodation and other known travel items were not taxable. July 30. The coverage of the import deposit scheme was reduced to approximately 5 per cent of total imports when a number of import categories became exempt. These included alcoholic beverages, marine outboard engines, and certain types of machinery. September 1. An entry tax was introduced on all foreign fishing vessels using New Zealand ports. The tax was graded according to the size of the vessel with a maximum of $NZ 5,000 charged to vessels of 5,000 tons and over. November 18. Restrictions on exports and re-exports of sugar were revoked. November 29. It was announced that the New ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N EW Z E A L A ND Zealand dollar was depreciated from US$0.9738 = $NZ 1 to US$0.9063 = $ NZ 1. The Reserve Bank stated its intention to continue to adjust the rate so as to maintain the new average overall relationship with the currencies of New Zealand's main trading partners. December 9. It was announced that the import deposit scheme was to be extended by six months to August 2, 1977. December 13. Certain exporters were permitted to deduct the equivalent of 3 per cent of their total export sales from their taxable income in the fiscal years 1976 /77 -1977 /78, in view of the devaluation of the Australian dollar. December 19. The New Zealand dollar was revalued to US$0.9377 = $NZ 1. December 31. The Governments of New Zealand and Aus tra l ia extended the free trade agreement for another ten years. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.105237 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba. The parity for the U . S. dollar is C$7 .00 = US $ 1. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals with the commercial banks in U . S. dollars, the interven­ tion currency, at C$7.00 per US $ 1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US $ 1. A ll exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7 .00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US $ 1. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been dele­ gated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of mone­ tary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and deter­ mining any advance deposits required; no advance deposit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily converti­ ble into U . S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa R i c a, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compen­ sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month. Imports and Import Payments A ll commercial and industrial importers are required to be registered. There are two broad categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any k ind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Unregistered ind i­ viduals may import for their own personal consumption. Commercial and industrial imports from a ll countries, except the other Central Amer ican countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial 340 license from the M in is t ry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be regis­ tered with the Central Bank by means of import declara­ tions. A ll imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods, industrial mate­ rials, and other essential goods; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Cen­ tral Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such per­ mission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia de pago) or that acceptance has been made through a bank (constancia de acepta- cion). In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this require­ ment does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central Ame r ican Common Market. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri­ can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Further­ more, most commodities are subject to a 6 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes­ tically produced, and there is an additional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the National Welfare Board. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur­ rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for wh ich the foreign currency obtained 1 However, by virtue of Decree N o. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution w i ll be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur­ chased from a bank, with the exception stated in foot­ note 1 ). F or certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the M in is t ry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or tempo­ rarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of M a r ch 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective M a r ch 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaran­ teed the following privileges, provided that the foreign currency is converted in the banking system: repatriation N I C A R A G UA of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and private investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for a ll borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authorization. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967 and commemorative gold and silver coins were issued in 1975. Changes during 1976 March 23. A decree authorized the establishment of duty-free zones for export industries. Businesses set up within the zones w i ll be exempt from customs duties, while export receipts w i ll be exempt from income tax. A new agency, the Au to r idad de las Zonas Francas w i ll be in charge of the establishment and management of the duty-free zones. May 16. A temporary ban on imports of iron rods imposed on M ay 6, 1975 was lifted. September 7. The arrangement whereby payments to Mex ico might be settled in cordobas through the clear­ inghouse was suspended. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA Franc 3 which is officially main­ tained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, subject to a commission from which transactions for the account of the public Treasury and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempt; the commission is Mo of 1 per m i ll for transfers to other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i on and 2.50 per m i ll for transfers to countries outside the U n i o n. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. A fixed exchange rate is applied in certain transactions with N iger ia. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Niger itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office in the M in is t ry of Finance which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in N iger, and inward and outward investment. The B C E AO is author­ ized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra­ tion, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the B C E AO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External 1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a. 342 Trade in the M in is t ry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Office in the M in i s t ry of Finance, except those for gold, wh ich are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are first approved by the External Finance Office. Prescription of Currency N iger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone normally are made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in foreign currencies or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia or South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irre­ spective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the M in is t ry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, many types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organization of A f r ican and Mau r i t ian States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West A f r ican Customs U n i o n. Imports from France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from A lge r ia, Mo rocco, Tun is ia, and the six original member states of the E E C, many goods from other former O E EC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the Un i ted States and Canada are liberal­ ized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from n o n -EEC countries outside the F rench F ranc A r ea are made under global quotas in accordance w i th an annual program that is determined each year by the M in i s t ry of Economic Affairs, C om­ merce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du N iger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. A ll import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than C F AF 25,000 c.i.f. Nigerien border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Office. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exter­ nal Finance Office, wh ich for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic trans­ action has been approved. Residents traveling on tourist trips to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea may obtain an exchange allo­ cation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 100,000 a per­ son a trip ( C F AF 50,000 for children under ten), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to N iger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an authorized bank. The transfer of salaries of foreigners working in N iger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Office and is normally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO bank­ N IG ER notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, in addition to their travel allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc A r ea may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes but, when traveling to a French Franc A r ea country outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, must declare these if they exceed C F AF 150,000. Nonres i­ dent travelers may freely take out up to C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to C F AF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. A ll exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the M in is t ry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits V ivr iers du N iger ( O P V N ). G um arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. W i th the exception of peanuts, peanut o i l, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, a ll other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. The due date of payments for exports to foreign countries must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be co l­ lected and, if the contract is denominated in a non- Franc A rea currency, surrendered by sale on the exchange market, within two months after the due date. A ll export transactions w i th foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds C F AF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued 2 Th is amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for C FA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with C FA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000). 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N IG ER by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of C F AF 5,000. Capital Cap i tal movements between N iger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest­ ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in N ige r; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities in N iger, these control measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r i c an Mone­ tary U n i o n, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Accoun t. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of N iger require prior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance .3 Foreign direct investments in N iger 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declara­ tion during wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The full or partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Bo th the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in N iger, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance and the B C E AO within 20 days following each operation. D irect investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com­ panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 344 The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in N iger requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how­ ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the N iger ien Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the annual rate does not exceed the "no rma l" market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repay­ ment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct invest­ ment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrow­ ings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Lend ing abroad is subject to prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Foreign investments in N iger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 (Law N o. 68-24), as amended by L aw N o. 71-2 of January 29, 1971 and Law N o. 74-18 of M a r ch 11, 1974. Ex is t ing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law N o. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and for­ eign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enter­ prises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling w i th in specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in N ige r. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, wh ich is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con­ taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N IG ER gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1976 March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the C FA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. April 1. Ordinance N o. 76-5 of M a r ch 25 reduced import duties on goods originating in member states of the E EC by 50 per cent. The statistical duty on imports and exports was reduced from 3 per cent to 2.5 per cent ad valorem for trade w i th a ll countries. July 1. The West A f r ican Clearing House formally started operations. August 11. A trade agreement was signed with N iger ia which replaced the trade agreement of Septem­ ber 4, 1969 and modified the payments arrangements between the two countries. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of N ige r ia is the N a i r a. On A p r il 17, 1963 an in i t ial par value of 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian pound was established. On February 14, 1973 a central rate of 1.11973 grams of fine gold per naira was established, corresponding at the time to N 0.793648 = SDR 1 or N 0.657893 = US $ 1. N iger ia avails itself of wider margins. Since A p r il 1, 1974, how­ ever, N ige r ia has ceased to observe any specified mar­ gins. The Central Bank of Nigeria's intervention cur­ rency is the U . S. dollar; the Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in U . S. dollars and sterling with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for the U . S. dollar are set at LA of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate, and those for sterling are determined on the basis of the prevailing U .S. dollar rate and the previous day's U .S. dollar-sterling middle rate quoted in London. The Central Bank does not normally publish rates for other foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1976, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were US$1.5886 and US$1.5806, respectively, per N 1, and its buying and selling rates for sterling were £ stg. 0.8745 and £ stg. 0.8701, respectively, per N 1. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them­ selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of N iger ia for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency for delivery at a future date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal M in is t ry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for 1 Fore ign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the naira. Currencies designated as specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pese­ tas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 346 approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside N ige r ia; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from out­ side N iger ia (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for impor ts); the granting of "approved status" to non­ resident investments in N ige r ia (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and insurance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of N iger ia is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most com­ mercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the M in is t ry of Finance and thus are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. A ny application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these autho­ rized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks from foreign visi­ tors and Nigerians newly arrived in the country. A ll export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of o il exports) are centralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The Central Bank allocates foreign exchange daily to authorized dealers. Allocations are determined within the framework of a foreign exchange budget, which, however, is essentially an indicative management tool rather than an allocation device. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal M in is t ry of Trade and the Import Quota A l loca t ion Committee, comprising officials of the Minis­ tries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Devel­ opment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products, however, are issued by the Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to countries other than Rhodesia may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any speci­ fied currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, M a l i, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Special ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. present the customs b i ll of entry within 90 days after the allocation of foreign exchange. N IG ER IA Nonresident Accounts The accounts are in three categories, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for residents of all countries other than Rhodesia. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of N ige r ia to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with payments from other External Accounts, and with pro­ ceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of N iger ia, for payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are fed with funds derived from local sources. They may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec­ tion 27 of the Exchange Control A c t. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. A ll imports from Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Southern Rhodesia ,2 and South Africa are prohibited, and the import from any country of certain specified commodities is banned, mostly for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons. The import of a few other commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with that are specified in the license authorizing such imports. Indi­ vidual import licenses are required for a small number of items from a ll sources, including raw or manufac­ tured tobacco, certain types of paper, passenger auto­ mobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters, and various alcoholic beverages. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Nam ib ia (South West Africa), Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Some imports are effected by an autonomous public agency, the N iger ia National Supply Company L t d. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the M i n­ istry of Finance for the public sector). Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. F or sight transactions, the importer must 2 While the import Prohibition Order. 1976 prohibits imports from Southern Rhodesia only, the Export Prohibition Order, 1976 prohibits exports to Rhodesia in general. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the b i ll or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and dividends) that require approval by the M in is t ry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. A ll insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in N iger ia must be taken out with a company in N iger ia and all insurance companies opera­ ting in the country must reinsure with the Na t ional Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow­ ance of N 1,000 a person a year (N 500 a year for children under the age of 16). There is a travel allow­ ance for pilgrimages, which for 1976 was the same as the tourist allocation. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addi­ tion, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in N iger ia may sell transportation tickets for any destina­ tion, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Bus i­ ness travel allowances are limited to N 80 a day, up to 15 days a trip for a maximum of 60 days in a fiscal year. Allocations also are available for medical care and study abroad; foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide educational expenses. Exchange applications for most nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign nationals residing in N iger ia may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remittances for any purpose (including insurance, education, medical expenses, provident fund contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel allowance); applications in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When taking overseas leave, they may also con­ vert up to three months' leave pay into foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted ;! New profits and dividends may be remitted as soon as they are declared. Remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and man­ agement fees require approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is normally permitted for the first five years after the establishment of a new company, and thereafter a percentage of gross profit not exceed­ ing 5 per cent. Each application is treated on its merits within these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other service pay­ ments, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N IG ER IA locally into N iger ian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coins; a ll other export of N iger ian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A l so, exports of beans, cassava tuber, groundnut o i l, maize, palm o i l, rice, and timber are prohibited, as are exports of explosives, other than industrial explosives. Exports of cattle and ground­ nuts have been suspended. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marke t ing Boards (mainly cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut o i l, palm kernel o i l, and palm kernels). A ll other goods may be exported without a license. The selling abroad of a ll export crops purchased by the Marketing Boards is the responsibility of the N iger ian Produce Marke t ing Company. The export of certain goods (A f r ican antiques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. F or a ll exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Central Bank. Persons entering N iger ia may freely bring in foreign banknotes. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; a ll other import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the M in is t ry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in N ige r ia to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The taking up of suppliers' credit abroad also is subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. The permission of the M in is t ry of Finance is also required for borrowing in N ige r ia (1) by any nonresident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in N iger ia (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside N iger ia. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed 348 banks in N ige r ia may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Banks have been directed to allocate 40 per cent of their total loans and advances to N iger ian persons and firms. Residents of N ige r ia may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of N iger ia any security payable in naira without the permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance. The capital pro­ ceeds of securities registered in N ige r ia and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the M in is t ry of Finance is obtained. Remittances of cash gifts to nonresidents normally are restricted to the equivalent in any one fiscal year of N 1,000 for each transferor in favor of charitable orga­ nizations outside N ige r ia, and of N 300 for each trans­ feror for gifts to individuals. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the N iger ian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises of various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976.4 Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in N ige r ia are invited to apply to the M in is t ry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration w i ll be given to future requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved invest­ ment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. W i th minor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks oper­ ating in N ige r ia must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the M in is t ry of Finance. Gold W i th the express permission of the Federal Commis­ sioner for Finance, residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in N ige r ia for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry 4 The Indigenization Decree was further amended in January 1977. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution require specific licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins current in the United K ingdom requires a license from the Comm is­ sioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coins requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bu l l ion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1976 February 5. Exports of timber, edible groundnut, and palm o il were prohibited. March 31. Nigeria's 1976/77 budget proposals were published, which included the following: prohibitions for six months on the importation of certain commodi­ ties; the extension of the abolition of the import duty on cement; import payments against documents and by letters of credit were made subject to the issuance of Port Cargo Clearance Certificates from the N iger ian Ports Au thor i ty or the A i rpo rt Au tho r i ty; a require­ ment that commercial banks were not to demand addi­ tional deposits from their customers in respect of imports into N ige r ia; prepayments for imports on the basis of letters of credit were to be released in foreign exchange only after full payment had been made in local currency and after shipping documents and certificates of clear­ ance had been presented; and travelers to and from Nigeria were allowed to import and export N 50 in Nigerian currency. April 1. The Excise Tariff (Consolidation) Decree, 1973 was amended by substituting a new schedule for the one previously in existence. April 1. The Import Proh ib i t ion Order, 1976 and the Export Proh ib i t ion Order, 1976 were published. The Import Proh ib i t ion Order, 1976 added, with imme­ diate effect, a number of goods to those whose import was either prohibited or subject to specific import license. May 14. The Port Cargo Clearance Certificate D i rec­ tions, 1976 were published. Ma r i t ime and air transport firms were required to obtain clearance certificates per­ mitting each arrival in N ige r ia. Copies of such cer­ tificates had to be submitted to banks before import payments could be made; there was a 30-day exemption for letters of credit opened before A p r il 1. Imports that were exempt included certain essential foodstuffs and industrial raw materials, imports specially authorized by the Federal M in i s t ry of Finance, and imports against letters of credit issued by the Central Bank. N IGER IA June 8. Some further items were exempted from the requirement to produce a Port Cargo Clearance Cer­ tificate as a condition for releasing payments for such imports. June 29. New measures to increase local sharehold­ ings in foreign companies were announced. In 1974, certain foreign-owned companies were required to sell 100 per cent of their equity to Nigerians while others were required to sell 40 per cent. The new measures established a third category for which 60 per cent Nigerian participation was required. The companies affected by the new decree have until the end of 1978 to comply with the requirements. As from Septem­ ber 30, however, all foreign-owned banks were required to have a minimum Nigerian equity participation of 60 per cent (previously 40 per cent). A l so, punitive action was announced against those foreign companies which had failed to meet their obligations under earlier indigenization legislation. Payment of dividends higher than 30 per cent of the capital stock of a company was prohibited. Profits in excess of that limit were required to be reinvested. July 1. The West A f r ican Clearing House formally came into operation. July 5. Importation of stockfish was made subject to licensing. August 11. A trade agreement was signed with Niger which replaced the trade agreement of September 4, 1969 and modified the payments arrangements between the two countries. August 24. The Government decided to take over foreign interests in five vegetable o il mills, mainly engaged in producing groundnut o il and cottonseed o i l. September 13. The ban on the importation of cement was lifted. October 1. The Import Proh ib i t ion Order, 1976 was amended to the effect that for some goods the import prohibition was lifted; others were removed from the list of goods whose import was subject to specific import license; and some goods formerly prohibited were trans­ ferred to the list of goods whose import was made subject to specific import license. October 1. The requirement that imports must obtain clearance certificates from the N iger ian Ports Authority or the A i rpo rt Au thor i ty as a condition for the release of foreign exchange for payments for imports was waived. October 12. The arrangements for business travel were tightened by establishing limits of 15 days a trip and 60 days a fiscal year as the maximum number for which the daily allocation of N 80 would be allowed. December 1. A ll imports had to be insured with a company registered in N ige r ia. Letters of credit were issued on a c.&f. basis only. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian K rone. Norway avails itself of wider mar­ gins. Margins of 2LA per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the N o r­ wegian krone and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Nether­ lands guilder, and the Swedish krona; the Bank of Norway's intervention rates for these currencies corre­ spond to a central rate of N Kr 6.94084 = SDR 1. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies. On December 31, 1976 the buying and selling rates of the authorized banks for the U .S. dollar were N Kr 5MLA and N Kr 5.19%, respectively, per US$1. Forward pre­ miums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transactions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. Norway formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from M ay 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping and, in cer­ tain cases, by the M in is try of Agriculture or the M in is t ry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro­ hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible cur­ rency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Converti­ ble Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by resi­ dents of all countries, subject to the proviso that without special permission from the Bank of Norway the total balance held by a nonbank nonresident must at no time exceed N Kr 100,000. They may be credited with autho­ rized payments to any country, with transfers from other Convertible K rone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to 350 residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible K rone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes, irrespective of coun­ try of or ig in. W i th this exception, industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list a r e a1 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural products are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for industrial goods for specified countries—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Po land, Romania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Ko rea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricul­ tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permission is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equip­ ment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Tele­ communications. The import of a small number of com­ modities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equip­ ment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceu­ tical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country except Rhodesia for all cur­ rent invisibles, including income from capital and con­ tractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided 1 A ll countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia. German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, U . S . S .R ., and Viet N am. 2 Automatic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, People's Republic of Ch ina, Republic of Ch ina, Nor th Korea, Macao, Mongo l ia, Rhodesia, and Viet N am. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of N Kr 2,000. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to N Kr 5,000 a trip for each person. F or business travel, the banks may sell reason­ able amounts. Each person leaving No rway may take with him up to N Kr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding N Kr 100. Nonresidents leaving No rway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country except Rhodesia, against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than N Kr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for fish and fish products this limit is N Kr 500. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship­ ment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren­ dered. Each person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding N Kr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of pro­ ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and non­ resident capital may be repatriated automatically. Pay­ ments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresi­ dent interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securi­ ties denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale; the purchase of shares of Norwegian banking and industrial firms by nonresidents is licensed restrictively on a case-by-case basis. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emi­ grants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. N O R W AY In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest­ ments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the excep­ tion of securities issued by foreign investment compa­ nies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securi­ ties between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securi­ ties were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to N Kr 150,000 a family; such purchases by business firms, staff associations, etc., are approved liberally, also for higher amounts. There are limits on the commercial banks' borrow­ ing abroad. Thus, according to guidelines issued on August 6, 1976, each individual bank may borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency from foreign banks within a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above the average of its total foreign borrowing at the end of each month of 1975. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or providing guaran­ tee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in No rway. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to sales tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1976 February 1. The agreement among the No rd ic cen­ tral banks with respect to mutual short-term currency support was revised. The credit facilities were expanded substantially. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement. A c co rd­ ingly, Norway ceased to observe maximum margins of 2VA per cent for the French franc. March 31. The ceiling for government guarantees in respect of ordinary export credits was raised from 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N O R W AY N Kr 5 b i l l ion to N Kr 7 b i l l ion. The corresponding ceiling for the special arrangement covering exports to and investments in developing countries was raised from N Kr 1 b i l l ion to N Kr 2 b i l l ion. (On February 2, 1977 these ceilings were further increased to N Kr 12 b i l l ion and N Kr 4 b i l l ion, respectively.) May 1. Imports of radio equipment and radio con­ trol equipment required special permission from the Directorate of Telecommunications. June 1. The licensing system introduced in 1974 for all imports of sugar for domestic consumption or indus­ trial use was discontinued. The system of centralized imports of sugar also was terminated. July 30. The l im it up to which payments for any purpose to any country other than Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks was increased from N Kr 500 to N Kr 2,000. August 6. The ceiling up to which each individual bank may borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency from foreign banks was fixed at 20 per cent above the average of its total foreign borrowing at the end of each month in 1975. August 15. The export free list area was extended to comprise all countries, except Rhodesia. August 15. The l im it up to which exports to any country are exempt from declaration or export license was increased from N Kr 500 to N Kr 2,000, except for exports of fish and fish products. September 1. The l im it up to which residents could, on application, transfer capital abroad for the purchase of recreational real estate, was increased from N Kr 80,000 to N Kr 150,000. October 1. The temporary automatic licensing arrange­ ment introduced in 1975 for certain textile imports was applied to four additional types of garments. It was applied to five other types of garments on November 15, to cover 15 items. October 18. The intervention rates in Norwegian kroner for the other currencies participating in the Euro­ pean common margins arrangement, with the excep­ tion of the Swedish krona, were changed. The new rates corresponded to a central rate of N Kr 6.94084 = SDR 1. The central rate previously communicated to the Fund was N Kr 6.87145 = S DR 1. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On July 4, 1974, Oman established an initial par value of 2.13281 grams of fine gold per R i al Omani, corre­ sponding at the time to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar, the inter­ vention currency, is RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, while the commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. On December 31, 1976, the official buying rate for the U . S. dollar was RO 1 = US$2.89814 and the official selling rate was RO 1 = US$2.89234. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sec­ tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro­ hibited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rho­ desia also is prohibited. No other prescription of cur­ rency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from a ll sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of M a r ia Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for pay­ ments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. A ll other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur­ rendered, and they may be disposed of, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank­ notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or jur id ical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a for­ eign investment law enacted in 1973. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may, without license, purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAK ISTAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee. The U . S. dollar is the intervention currency, and Pakistan avails itself of wider margins. The State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) maintains official rates of PRs 9.8844 buying, and PRs 9.9312 sell­ ing, per US$1 for dealings of banks with the public. A ll transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in for­ eign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U .S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated to a number of banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre­ scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con­ ducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, L t d. ( T C P ), the Cotton Export Corporation, L t d. ( C E C P ), the Rice Export Corporation, L t d. ( R E C P ), and the Edible O il Corporation, L t d. ( E O C P ). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries, however, are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in U . S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domestic currency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodi­ ties with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Po land, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. is settled through clearing accounts. There is a special trade and payments arrangement with 354 the German Democratic Republic, with an indicative commodity list only. The clearing accounts with the People's Republic of Ch ina are maintained in noncon- vertible Pakistan rupees; those with the German Demo­ cratic Republic, Po land, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. are in U . S. dollars; and the clearing account with North Ko rea is denominated in deutsche mark. Payments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian o i l, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U .S. dol­ lars. Under a credit arrangement with the Central Bank of Cey lon, all trade with Sri Lanka is settled through a special U . S. dollar account. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the As ian Clearing Un ion other than Bangladesh and Iran (i.e., India, Nepa l, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petro­ leum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected in As ian monetary units through the As ian Clearing Un ion; for settlements with Sri Lanka, this is applicable to invisibles only. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi­ dent in countries outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds which have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur­ poses can be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control autho­ rities. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated, credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay 1 Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceeds six months; thereafter the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiv­ ing such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in principle, be procured without restriction while items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U . S. P . L. 480 pro­ gram. Items not on either list are effectively prohibited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. A ll imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Govern­ ment for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items per­ mitted under a M in is try of Commerce Notification (No. 335 /260 /24 of June 12, 1951). Generally, licenses remain valid for six months.2 Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the license, and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent of the value of the license exceeding PRs 100,000, payable at the time of the issue of the license. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are pro­ hibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. (2) In order to facilitate barter trading and aid utilization and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the T CP and the EOCP, unless the items are procured with U . S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to industrial consumers. (4) In con­ formity with Regional Cooperation for Development arrangements between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey gov­ erning procurements from joint industrial ventures, the import of nine items, including six chemical items, is restricted to procurement from Turkey. A l so, dates may be imported only from Iraq. (5) Special provisions exist for the import for export industries of tied list items from nontied sources and items not on either import list. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of industrial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 1.5 m i l l ion for imports against cash and PRs 2 m i l­ lion for imports under tied credit and under bilateral payments arrangements (larger plant and equipment are 2 On January 12, 1977 the validity period was extended to one year. P A K I S T AN to be procured under the auspices of the financing insti­ tutions and with the approval of the M in is try of Industry). Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news­ papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened within 60 days after registration of the license with the State Bank for private and public sector imports except for private sector cash imports where licenses lapse after 45 days. For imports under tied loans or credits which require the contract to be approved by the Economic Affairs D iv is ion or any other specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports remain va l id for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days after final approval of the contract. F ina l ly, o il companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for import of crude oil and petroleum and o il and lubricant products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufac­ turers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No import pay­ ments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or consigned from the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, Rho­ desia, or South A f r i c a. The State Bank requires banks to take a minimum margin of 25 per cent against import letters of credit, except for imports of industrial or agricultural machinery and spare parts, edible oils, indus­ trial raw materials, crude o il and petroleum products, items on the tied import list, and books, periodicals, and newspapers. Certain goods are subject, irrespective of origin, to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem. These include cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, and passenger automobiles. A 10 per cent surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports except petroleum products, tea, tractors, certain specified machinery, and items exempt from import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, South A f r ica, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remit­ tances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commis­ sions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A K I S T AN importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 per cent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement for which separate regulations apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel; this alloca­ tion can be taken up once every two years. Add i t ional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, educa­ tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi A rab ia and other M idd le East­ ern countries. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan cur­ rency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan cur­ rency. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks granted by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination, and a ll exports to the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, Rho­ desia, and South A f r ica are prohibited.0' Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for some 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to minimum export prices, and for certain textile products intended for export to member countries of the E E C. The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan has a monopoly over exports of cotton; rice is exported through the Rice Export Corporation and cement through the State Cement Corporation. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he w i ll surrender the exchange within a cer­ tain period of time. After ascertaining that the export­ er's declaration meets a ll conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment; the State Bank may, on the merits of each case, allow an extension of this period. 3 Prohibited exports include beef, mutton, grains, flour, dairy prod­ ucts, edible oils, blood meal, meat meal, corn gluten meal, sesame oil cake, certain citrus fruits (unless graded), and certain hides and skins. 356 The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. The rate of income tax and corporate profit tax is reduced by 50 per cent on all income and profits derived from exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue. Industrial units established under the Pay-As-You- Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of sup­ pliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on a range of export items, including raw cotton, rice, o il cakes, molasses, and hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisi­ bles must be surrendered within one month. Travelers may bring in PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 and above may not be imported. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop­ ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time there­ after to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest­ ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in Na t ional Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and the prize winnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securi­ ties by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided the securities are registered at the Pakistani address of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securi­ ties held by nonresidents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permis­ sion has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na t ional Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. P ro­ ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capi­ tal assets that are not covered by repatriation arrange­ ments must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi­ dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit­ tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non­ resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro­ ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1976 January 10. A Presidential Ordinance was issued subjecting the emigration of professionals to specific government approval and empowering the Government to regulate the outflow of skilled workers. The o rd i­ nance was withdrawn on February 4. January 17. The Central Board of Revenue autho­ rized the repayment of customs duties paid on exported P A K I S T AN raw materials on the basis of 8 per cent and 4 per cent of the f.o.b. export value of finished cow leather and goat and sheep leather, respectively. The application for repayment had to be submitted within 60 days of exportation. January 17. A Presidential Ordinance repealed the Drugs (Generic Names) A ct of 1972 and the D rug A ct of 1940, and provided regulating powers over the quality and price of imported and locally manufactured drugs. A new Na t ional Formulary was to be compiled which would specify which drugs could be imported. A Regis­ tration Board would register imported and locally manu­ factured drugs. January 21. The Cotton Export Corporation, L t d. announced that while existing contracts would be met, no new contracts would be signed until the availability of raw cotton for domestic use had been assured. In M ay it was decided to continue the ban until the arrival of the following crop. January 29. Pakistani nationals coming to Pakistan on return tickets had to obtain State Bank approval before commencing their return trip from Pakistan ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 3 ). This provision was later relaxed by exempting Pakistani nationals who had been abroad for at least ten months and whose stay in Pakistan did not exceed three months ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 4 ). February 18. An ordinance was issued providing for the promotion and protection of foreign investment. The Federal Government may authorize foreign private investment in undertakings in Pakistan and the invest­ ment would be protected against takeovers without compensation and certain guarantees would be given for repatriation of the capital. There was also a provision for the avoidance of double taxation, for tax conces­ sions, and for remittances by foreign employees of the undertaking. April 5. Commission, brokerage, and other trade charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters were limited to a maximum of 5 per cent of invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement for which separate rates were to be announced. In excep­ tional cases or where it was customary in any particular trade to pay commission in excess of 5 per cent, the State Bank could consider applications by exporters through their banks and could grant a standing authority to permit commission payments in excess of 5 per cent of invoice value. April 12. The commodity exchange arrangement with the People's Republic of Ch ina was extended until June 30 ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 15). April 21. The bans on the export of poultry, eggs, potatoes, and vegetables were lifted. April 30. A trade agreement was signed with Bangla­ desh providing for commencement of trade between the two countries. Settlements were to be made outside the As ian Clearing U n i on arrangements ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 17). 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A K I S T AN May 3. The import of jute sacking and hessian and sodium carbonate was reserved to the T C P. May 11. The Seed A ct of 1976 provided for the establishment of a Na t ional Seed Counc il to advise on the import of seed. May 26. Max imum exchange entitlements for study in countries other than Europe and the Western Hem i­ sphere were increased ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 20 ). June 1. A five-year commercial cooperation agree­ ment was signed with the E E C. It provided, inter alia, for the mutual granting of most-favored-nation treat­ ment and for the highest degree of liberalization of imports and exports which the two parties apply to third countries in general. In a declaration annexed to the agreement the E EC stated its readiness to take into account Pakistan's trade in basmati rice and cotton prod­ ucts (the latter to the extent permitted by the E E C- Pakistan textile agreement). June 30. The third and final stage of the elimination of the margin of preference on British goods was effected. July 1. A new code list for invisible receipts and payments entered into force ( F . E. C ircu lar N o. 19). July 1. The import program for 1976/77 came into effect. The import licensing arrangements provided for enlargement of the free import list from 389 to 407 items by the addition of a number of consumer goods items previously banned, and by the transfer of items from the tied list. Items that hitherto had been banned and were now included in the free list include air conditioners sanitary ware (for domestic use), refrigera­ tors and deep freezers (for domestic use), tape recorders and cassette players, china and porcelain, and aluminum or enameled iron sinks and washbasins. Items hitherto on the tied list and now on the free list include dry bat­ tery cells, enameled bathtubs, razor blades, and sanitary ware. Certain items of equipment were also added to the free list. Some raw materials previously importable by industrial consumers only could now be imported by all registered importers. The maximum permissible delay in opening letters of credit against import licenses was extended from 30 to 45 days. July 1. A surcharge of 10 per cent was introduced on the c.i.f. value of a ll imports other than petroleum products, tea, tractors, certain specified machinery, and items exempt from import duty. July 1. The income tax reduction for the export industry was raised from 25 per cent to 50 per cent. To facilitate the replacement of old machinery, the tax payable on 10 per cent of the amount of investment in new equipment could be deferred for two years follow­ ing installation, if the new equipment were installed by June 30, 1979. July 10. Restrictions on shipments by Bangladesh or Indian flag vessels were withdrawn ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 2 8 ). 358 July 15. In pursuance of a joint Pakistani-Indian statement of May 14, 1976, the private sector was per­ mitted to participate in trade with India. July 22. Payments and receipts in respect of foreign trade with India were to be made in accordance with the As ian Clearing U n i on arrangements ( F . E. Circular N o. 33 ). July 22. The maximum value of gift parcels was increased from PRs 50 to PRs 200 ( F . E. Circular N o. 32 ). August 19. Max imum entitlements for students in the United K ingdom and the rest of Europe were raised and were converted from a pound sterling to a U . S. dollar basis ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 4 0 ). September 14. Millstones, grinding stones, and parts were added to the list of banned machinery imports. September 21. Pakistan and Bangladesh decided that shipment of all goods under their trade agreement of A p r il 20, 1976 would be restricted to Pakistani and Bangladesh vessels ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 4 5 ). September 22. The export tax of US$70 a metric ton of basmati rice was suspended. October 21. Authorized dealers were permitted to apply to the State Bank for approval of letters of credit for imports from India providing for payment in con­ vertible foreign currency in cases where payment through the Asian Clearing Un ion arrangement was not accepta­ ble to exporters in India. At the same time all exports to India had to be made against irrevocable letters of credit in convertible foreign currency and authorized dealers were required to submit to the State Bank weekly statements of exports to India financed by letters of credit ( F . E. C i rcu lar N o. 4 9 ). November 17. The commodity exchange arrange­ ment with A . B. Sukab of Sweden was extended until June 30, 1977 for the opening of letters of credit and until September 30, 1977 for the making of deliveries. The lists of exports and imports under the arrangement were also modified. December 7. Foreign tourists were permitted to reconvert PRs 500 (instead of PRs 150) from the unspent balance of their foreign exchange sales (F .E. C i rcu lar N o. 5 3 ). December 9. Imports of books, magazines, journals, and periodicals were exempted from the 25 per cent margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit. December 10. The approval requirement for outward passage by Pakistan nationals holding return tickets was further relaxed. App roval was necessary only when the stay abroad prior to return to Pakistan was less than six months (previously ten months). December 20. The free import list was amended by the addition of shaving cream and soap, toothbrushes, and toothpaste. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa. The parity rate for the U . S. dollar is B 1.00 = US $ 1, and Panama does not avail itself of wider margins. U . S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins, a commemorative silver coin of B 20, a com­ memorative platinum coin of B 150, and two com­ memorative gold coins of B 100 and B 500. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based mainly on New Y o rk market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sec­ tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric­ tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The M in i s­ try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of IVi per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical prod­ ucts and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2.Vi per cent and V/i per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as food­ stuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zones. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manufactured products in short supply. Me r­ chandise on which export taxes are imposed is also sub­ ject to licensing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, certain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario). The pro­ ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or non­ residents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry and export licenses are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U .S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of Vi of 1 per cent. Changes during 1976 Du r ing the year, imports of additional commodities were made subject to quantitative restriction, notably by 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A N A MA Price Regulations Nos. 65, 131, 152, and 210 of A p r il 2, June 30, August 20, and November 12. April 6. Law N o. 13 increased the general import surcharge from 7 per cent to per cent and set the surcharge for specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs at 2Vi per cent and V/2 per cent, respectively, of the f.o.b. value. Goods previously subject to a 3V2 per cent surcharge were unaffected. The law also removed import duties on many luxury consumer goods for the tourist trade. August 10. Executive Decree N o. 36 of the M in is try of Commerce and Industry required public institutions, as well as private firms working on government projects, to seek permission to import merchandise previously exempted by contract from customs duty. Goods not affected included pharmaceutical products and goods imported for social welfare purposes. August 16. The public sector was prohibited in princi­ ple from importing goods that are produced in Panama. Such goods could be imported only where domestic production was insufficient or domestic quality was inferior, or if the domestic price exceeded the c.i.f. value of the foreign product by more than 20 per cent (50 per cent for goods for the agricultural and livestock sector). December 22. Law N o. 75 imposed a tax of 5 per cent (calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges) on most imports. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of Papua New Guinea is the K i n a, which is officially pegged to the Australian dollar, the intervention currency. The Bank of Papua New Guinea deals with local banks in Australian dollars, Japanese yen, and U . S. dollars only. On December 31, 1976, the Bank of Papua New Guinea's fixed buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar were $A 1.1350 and $A 1.1321 per K 1, and its buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$1.2327 and US$1.2301 per K l. The corresponding rates for the public posted by the authorized dealers were $A 1.1378 buying, and $A 1.1293 selling, per K 1, and US$1.2355 buying, and US$1.2273 selling, per K 1. The Bank of Papua New Guinea's exchange rate for the U . S. dollar is set daily on the basis of the middle rate quoted by the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea administers exchange control by means of the Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Department of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea delegates extensive powers to the trading banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Relations and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign cur­ rency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Papua New Guinea currency from an overseas bank's account in Papua New Gu inea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea seeks to control all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such accounts may be withdrawn without further for­ mality. On ly in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported from Rhodesia are con- 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than kina. the cerned. Authorized dealers have powers to approve the great majority of transactions without the necessity for completion of application forms or reference to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Approval is given for payment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equipment. There are no import licensing requirements. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies written after December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not per­ mitted. No absolute limits are imposed on travel funds, although applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for con­ sideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Over­ seas visitors are free to take out any currency which they brought in and had recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Bank for a Specific Au thor i ty. No authority is needed for certain excepted categories of goods; these include sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Va lua t ion) A c t. Special pro­ visions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood ch ips ). Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without l im i t; advance commitments, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. Persons 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1976 January 1. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea posted fixed buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar, with margins around the parity; previously, kina were exchanged for Australian dollars at the parity rate. January 1. The Declaration of November 1, 1973, by which the Foreign Exchange Regulations were deemed not to apply to transactions between residents of Papua New Gu inea and residents of Aus tra l ia, was revoked. As a result, uniform exchange controls became applicable between Papua New Guinea and a ll countries. January 1. The definitions of permanent and tem­ porary residents were revised. January 1. An exemption to the Foreign Exchange Regulations was declared allowing temporary residents to deal freely with their foreign securities. January 7. The General Au tho r i ty for the export of goods was amended in order to accord banks domiciled in Aus tra l ia the same nonresident status as banks domiciled in other countries. January 7. Portfolio investment overseas was allowed in a slightly wider range of investments than previously; the limits in force since 1973 remained unchanged for individuals but were lowered for private and public companies. July 72. The Foreign Exchange (Va l id i ty of Transac­ tions) Regulation, 1976 was introduced to ensure that contracts, etc., are not made enforceable by a breach of the regulations. July 25. The kina was revalued to K 1 = $A 1.05. July 26. A forward exchange cover facility for export­ ers in U . S. dollars was introduced. November 6. A Long-Term Trade Agreement with Australia was signed, establishing a free trade area between Papua New Guinea and Aus tra l ia. The Agree­ ment w i ll come into effect after ratification and will replace the Memorandum of Understanding of Decem­ ber 1973. November 29. The kina was revalued = $A 1.1812. December 13. The kina was depreciated = $A 1.1550. December 17. It was announced that the rate for the kina would be adjusted from time to time in accordance with a predetermined set of rules. December 29. The k ina was depreciated = $A 1.1335. to K1 to K1 to K1 P A P UA N EW G U I N EA who have been granted temporary residential status by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Gu inea are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment outside Papua New Guinea by per­ manent residents and by companies and other organiza­ tions operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to cer­ tain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12- month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private companies, and K 100,000 for public companies. Investment may only be in the form of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by permanent residents.2 Where direct investment is involved, approval would normally depend on the extent to which additional real benefits (such as exports) would accrue from the investment. App roval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for a ll new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers applications to the Minister for Finance to ensure that the Government concurs with the proposal. Foreign investments other than those in bank­ ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the National Investment and Development Au thor i ty. In addition to investment in the form of loans and equity capital, approval is also necessary from the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the acknowledgment of indebted­ ness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold App roval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Go ld) Regulations is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. An exemption to the Regulations allows native miners to export gold to Australia for refining without specific approval. The Regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coins with a gold content of over K 50. A K 100 gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out freely by travelers. 3 Fore ign securities are defined in the Central Banking A ct as includ­ ing deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due to persons outside Papua New Gu inea. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On M a r ch 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para­ guayan Gua rani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange trans­ actions take place in a dual exchange market. Transac­ tions in the official exchange market (mercado libre bancario) must be carried out through the Central Bank of Paraguay (for a ll government transactions) or an authorized commercial bank; these transactions take place at a rate of 0 126 per U S $ 1, subject to taxes and commissions. Transactions in the fluctuating free mar­ ket (mercado libre fluctuante) are conducted through licensed foreign exchange houses at a fluctuating rate which on December 31, 1976 was about 0 136 per US$1 buying, and 0 139 per US$1 selling. A ll purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1V2 per cent, except transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat packing plants; and transactions relating to investments in Paraguay that are covered either by Investment Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970 or by Investment Law No. 550 of December 19, 1975. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of for­ eign exchange. A tax of 10 per cent is levied on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and a tax of 30 per cent on remittances of interest, royalties, rents, hon­ orariums, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. There are no forward exchange facilities. The transactions settled in the official exchange mar­ ket are exports and imports (except unrecorded border trade), certain current invisibles, all government trans­ actions, registered private capital transactions, and related profit remittances. A ll other transactions are channeled through the fluctuating free market, unless settlements are effected under reciprocal credit agree­ ments with L A F TA countries. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies 1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by commercial banks and authorized foreign exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Chile, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, Peru, and Uruguay must be made through accounts wh ich the Central Bank of Para­ guay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, w i th in the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. There are no other pre­ scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited .2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are negotiated by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the M in is t ry of Interior; these are mainly narcotics and arms and ammunition. A ll other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Im­ ports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or, for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for, inter alia, public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organiza­ tions, petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, and news­ print from any source, imports from neighboring coun­ tries and Uruguay, and imports from other L A F TA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the Na t ional L i s t ). The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in L A F TA countries and included in the Paraguayan Na t ional List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other L A F TA goods (mainly pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). A surcharge of V2 of 1 per­ cent, the proceeds of which go to the Small Farmers' Credit Agency, is levied on imports of all goods other than wheat and wheat flour, crude petroleum and its derivatives, and pharmaceuticals. There is an addi­ tional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from a ll sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Commodities that are exempt from surcharge generally are also exempt from advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 2 These include sugar, rice, flour, and certain other agricultural products and foodstuffs, certain petroleum products, cement, certain yarns and textiles, dry cell batteries, and certain wires and wire products. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A R A G U AY from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Span­ ish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the Na t ional Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under Invest­ ment Laws Nos. 216 /70 and 550 /75. Imports of invest­ ment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff surcharge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law N o. 1334/ 67, which implemented Decree-Law N o. 451 of M a r ch 31, 1967, and Law N o. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is generally 12 or 24 per cent (8 or 16 per cent for certain goods subject to L A F TA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and the true market value upon arrival in customs for imports from other countries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes; imports under Investment Laws Nos. 216 /70 and 550/75 and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law N o. 69 /68. In addition to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on either the c.i.f. value of imports or the true market value upon arrival in customs: a con­ sular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of 1V2 per cent, from which wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Tech­ nology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construc­ tion materials are subject to an additional customs surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing and Urbanization. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain delays arise from time to time as a result of weekly releases of foreign exchange to the private commercial banks by the Cen­ tral Bank. Payments through the L A F TA clearing system are made promptly. 364 Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the fluctuating free market. There are alloca­ tions at the official rate for a few invisibles, such as payments related to study abroad, while trade-related invisibles may be settled in accordance with documents submitted. The General Banking Law, Law N o. 417 of November 13, 1973, limits the remittance of profits through the official market to 30 per cent of any one year's profits for commercial banks and financial institu­ tions and to 60 per cent for investment, development, and mortgage banks; the remaining profits must be reinvested in the financial sector or in other specifically authorized activities, and 20 per cent annually of such reinvested amounts may be transferred abroad. Trav­ elers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and a few other items are prohibited. Meat is subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports, such as hides and skins, require licenses in order to ensure adequate domestic supplies. A ll other exports are free of license but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an authorized commercial bank; there are no legal sanc­ tions for noncompliance with this requirement unless this is notified to the Central Bank by the Superin- tendency of Banks. F or a ll exports the Central Bank establishes minimum export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds corresponding to either these prices or the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; however, for coffee only the equivalent of 50 per cent of the minimum export price needs to be sold to the banking system, and the balance remains at the free disposal of the exporter. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) pub­ lished by the M in is t ry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies ranging from 1 V2 per cent to IV2 per cent of the aforo value; most exports also are subject to an additional tax of W2 per cent of the aforo value. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital Movements of registered capital take place in the official exchange market, through authorized banks, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all other capital movements are channeled through the fluctuating free market, through exchange houses. A ll inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks and exchange houses. Au thor ized banks may grant exchange at the official market rate for transfers of registered capital, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Investment Law N o. 550 of December 19, 1975 (which replaced Investment Law N o. 216 of November 9, 1970) empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit con­ cessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Cap i tal imported and registered under Investment Laws Nos. 216 /70 or 550/ 75 may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of produc­ tion, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law N o. 18 of 1952 provides that the Central Bank may determine the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired by the Central Bank or institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In practice residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may P A R A G U AY freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf w i th residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, for which nonbank resi­ dents and industrial users are eligible; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through autho­ rized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. Changes during 1976 January 5. Resolution N o. 3 of the M in is t ry of Indus­ try and Commerce established guidelines for the imple­ mentation of Decree N o. 19635 of December 19, 1975, which had prohibited the import of various types of cotton textiles. March 25. A reciprocal credit agreement was con­ cluded with Uruguay. June 22. Decree N o. 23578 provided that all hides and skins had to be offered to the domestic tanning industry; only those refused by domestic processors could be exported, subject to prior authorization from the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. August 30. Resolution N o. 16, Minute N o. 157 set internal guidelines for the placement in the New Y o rk market of La t in Ame r ican Banker's Acceptances. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P ERU (Position on January 7, 1977) Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with a single exchange rate, which is adjusted from time to time; on December 31, 1976 the rate for the U . S. dollar was S /. 69.37 per US$1, buying and selling. The exchange certificate market rate applies to all trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, inc lud­ ing the principal capital movements, and the draft mar­ ket rate to services and most other nontrade transac­ tions. The foreign exchange requirements of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate market. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru in U . S. dollars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports (f.o.b.) and for certain nontrade transac­ tions. Generally, no exchange certificates are issued against export proceeds surrendered by the public sec­ tor, nor are certificates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since normally the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct from and to government agencies at the certificate rate. When approved applications for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. A ll foreign exchange receipts that are not required to be surrend­ ered at the certificate rate must be sold in the draft market, in which only the government-owned Banco de la Nac ion and its authorized agents operate. Access to the draft market is controlled and purchases of for­ eign exchange are permitted only for specified payments not eligible for exchange at the certificate rate. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of V4 of 1 per cent on sales of certificates (none on purchases of certificates); they may charge a commission of VA of 1 per cent, buying and selling, on transactions in the draft market. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances. Peru formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Fo r­ eign Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank controls the use of certificates for import payments. It also authorizes the use of certificates for nontrade transactions; for profit remittances by branches of foreign companies, prior approval by the M in is t ry of 366 Economy and Finance must be obtained in addition. A ll imports require the approval, within the framework of an annual import plan, of the competent sectoral ministry. In addition, a specific import license issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce is required for each import transaction of the private sector, and foreign exchange for imports is allocated to each importer by the Central Reserve Bank on the basis of the approved annual import program. Pub l ic sector imports require the approval of the Board for External Transactions of the Pub l ic Sector. Borrow ing abroad by the public sector as well as bor­ rowing abroad by the private sector with a government guarantee are subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, upon favorable recommendation by the High Committee of the External Debt, the Na t ional Planning Institute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. The External Office for Foreign Investment in the Commer­ (OIESCO) supervises foreign commercial cial Sector investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as thj related royalty payments. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies; 1 exchange certificates at present are only issued in U . S. dollars, but the Central Reserve Bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U . S. dollars, which have been established under bilateral payments agreements. No other prescription of currency require­ ments are in force. Payments between Peru and Argen­ tina, Bo l iv i a, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Goods not included in the List of Permitted Imports may not be imported (with the exception of goods from Andean G roup countries and gifts). Moreover, the import of a large number of manufactures included in the Na t ional Register of Manufactured Products requires the approval of the M in is t ry of Industry and Tourism and of the customs authorities, which is granted only in 1 The proceeds must be received in the currency in which the con­ tract is expressed if it is one of the following currencies: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U .S. dollars. Otherwise, export proceeds must be received in U . S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceptional circumstances unless the goods originate in a country of the Andean G roup. F or goods on the L ist of Permitted Imports that are also on the Na t ional Register of Manufactured Products, the importer must show that local production is insufficient in quantity or quality. Each year a Na t ional Annual Import Program and an Annual Import Exchange Budget are approved by a Supreme Decree of the Counc il of Ministers. The former specifies the permitted annual import level by sector and, within each sector, by private and public importers. On the basis of this plan, the relevant sec­ toral ministries approve annual import programs for each importer, with each program specifying item-by- item the approved volume and estimated U . S. dollar value. In accordance with these approved programs, private sector importers are provided by the Central Reserve Bank with four quarterly exchange allocation cards. The corresponding amount of exchange is sub­ tracted from the card each time import documents are registered. In addition, each import transaction requires a specific import license which is issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce after the verification that the items to be imported are included in the importer's annual program. Imports from countries of the Andean G roup, however, do not require an import license and need only be registered with the M in is t ry of Commerce. Certain agri­ cultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by the F ish Meal Marke t ing Agency (EPCHAP), and crude petroleum and petroleum deriva­ tives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Cer­ tain industrial raw materials and fertilizers may be imported only by the Na t ional Enterprise for Industrial Marketing ( E N C I ). Payments for the f.o.b. value of private sector imports, whether under documentary letters of credit or on a documentary collection basis, and for interest charges on foreign import credits, may be made at the certificate exchange rate; however, payments for freight and import-related banking charges other than interest must be made at the draft market rate. Transport insurance contracts for imported goods must be placed with national insurance companies unless a specific exemp­ tion from this requirement is obtained from the Banco de la Nac ion, in which case premium payments are made at the draft market rate. The full c.i.f. value of public sector imports may be paid with certificates. The use of certificates for import payments requires the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank, which provides the foreign exchange to the commercial banks against delivery of the certificates. The commer­ cial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates w i ll be used for the importation of merchandise. The relevant shipping documents and the b i ll of lading, together with the com­ mercial invoice and the remittance letter issued by the exporter, must be forwarded to a commercial bank and P E RU presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registration and validation. Submission of import contracts or other evidence sup­ porting the transaction is required for advance import payments when the shipping documents are not avail­ able; in addition, the intermediary bank must provide a guarantee equal to the sol value of the advance payment. If the shipping documents are not presented within 30 days after the utilization of the foreign exchange, the Central Reserve Bank w i ll collect the guarantee and refund this sum only when the required documents have been presented. M i n im um credit terms have been pre­ scribed for many imports. F or imports of capital goods valued at over US$10,000 f.o.b., at least 80 per cent of the value must be financed abroad through loans either from suppliers or other foreign creditors or from the Peruvian state development banks, to be repaid in accordance with prescribed m in i­ mum credit terms. The state development banks may only provide such financing for national enterprises; these loans are repayable at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of repayment. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize the sale of exchange certificates only for partial advance payments of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value for imports of capital goods by the private sector (20 per cent of the c.i.f. value for public sector imports). These imports of capital goods must be cov­ ered by irrevocable documentary credits and the inter­ mediary bank must guarantee refunding of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. F or private sector imports of goods other than capital goods from countries outside the Andean G roup, the minimum external financing terms at the end of 1976 were as follows: (1) foodstuffs and pharmaceutical products were exempt; (2) a credit period of at least 90 days from the date of shipment was prescribed for certain intermediate and finished goods; (3) the corre­ sponding minimum period for all other goods was 120 days; and (4) import shipments valued at up to US$5,000 (c. & f.) were exempt, up to a total value of US$50,000 a year for each importer. A ll goods, whether imported or produced domes­ tically, are subject to a sales tax imposed by Decree- Law N o. 21497. The tax is levied at a general rate of 20 per cent, a maximum rate of 40 per cent, preferential rates of between 2 per cent and 7 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effective rates of between 10 per cent and 16 per cent; there is also a list of exempted items. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Pub l ic sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Au thor iza t ion is required in order to pay for invisibles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The transac- 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU tions in invisibles that are eligible for the certificate mar­ ket include government payments, profit remittances by branches of foreign companies operating in Peru, d iv i­ dend remittances to foreign shareholders (provided that the original investment took place at the certificate rate), and interest payments on those loans for which amortiza­ tion may be transferred through the certificate market. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, require a resolution of the M i n­ istry of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clearance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Moreover, in compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean G roup, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the competent agency. Access to the certificate market or the draft market for profit remittances is determined according to the market through which the investment is made. Remittances of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru are limited to 20 per cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted in exceptional cases;2 foreign-owned enterprises may not pay royalties under new contracts to a foreign parent company or its affiliates; and the effective interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its foreign affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is denominated. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates must be obtained in the draft mar­ ket, subject to the prior authorization of the Banco de la Nac ion. For private sector payments in respect of a large number of current invisibles the sale of foreign exchange is authorized freely, either by the Banco de la Nac ion or its agents, provided evidence is presented that genuine current payments are involved. These cate­ gories include insurance premiums, the remuneration of technicians hired abroad, interest on loans for which amortization payments are permitted to be transferred through the draft market, rental income, pensions, and commissions. Payments for royalties, patents, and trade­ marks require the prior approval of the contract by the competent agency. F or certain other payments of the private sector basic allocations have been established up to which foreign exchange is sold freely through the draft market by the Banco de la Nac ion. These cate­ gories include expenses abroad connected with tourist and business travel, study, and family maintenance. The basic l im it up to which foreign exchange for tourist travel may be sold is the equivalent of S /. 1,200 a person a day for travel in the Amer ican continent and S /. 1,350 a person a day for travel elsewhere. The corresponding limits for business travel range from S /. 2,600 to S /. 3,900 a person a day, plus representa­ tion expenses of up to S /. 26,000 a trip. There is a travel tax, which takes the form of a tax on a traveler's acquisition of goods and services abroad (including the cost of passages and fares) of 30 per cent for tourist travel and business travel on amounts up to the daily limits specified above, and of 50 per cent on any amounts in excess of these limits; the minimum amount payable is S /. 200 a day for each day spent abroad. Exempt are residents traveling on official business and foreign diplomats. Travel for medical treatment or study abroad also is exempt. The tax is paid prior to departure on the basis of a sworn declaration specifying separately the amount of the fare, the value of anticipated services to be received, and daily expenses. A ir and sea passages are in addition subject to a 15 per cent ad valorem tax (9 per cent for economy class fares). Foreign nationals resident in Peru must obtain a special travel permit for business travel abroad (permiso especial de salida y reingreso). Such permits cost S /. 1,000 and are valid for six months. The export of domestic currency in excess of S /. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco M ine ro del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINEROPERU and the Banco M ine ro over exports of gold and silver. EPCHAP has a monopoly over exports of fish meal, fish o i l, coffee, and cotton, and E P SEP over exports of fish for human consumption. A ll exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within ten working days of payment. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional exports or local handi­ craft articles are granted transferable tax credit certifi­ cates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equivalent to 30 per cent of the c. & f. value (the f.o.b. value is used when the goods are shipped in foreign ves­ se l s ) .8 These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nac ion administers an export credit guarantee program and the Industrial Bank provides or arranges export finance for nontraditional exports. Trad i t ional exports are subject to a tax of 15 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Most public sector entities other than the state banks must surrender their fu ll receipts at the certificate rate; 2 Companies exporting at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Group and mining companies are exempt. 3 An additional 2 per cent is allowed for new exports and an addi­ tional 10 per cent for exports from outside the L ima -Ca l lao area. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the exceptions are earnings from services provided by the Peruvian Shipping Company ( C P V) and the Peru­ vian A i r l i ne Company (A ERO P ERU ), which are eligible for the draft market rate. A ll other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the draft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S /. 1,000 in Peruvian cur­ rency, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemp­ tions in special circumstances. Capital A ll outward capital transfers require prior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital pay­ ments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans con­ tracted by the private sector, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organizations, and for payment of debts guaranteed by the State. Payments in connection with all loans received before June 17, 1971 and not channeled through the certificate market must be transferred through the draft market. The proceeds of all foreign loans received after June 17, 1971 must be converted in the certificate market; amor­ tization and service payments in respect of these loans are also settled through the certificate market. A ll exchange receipts that are not required to be sold in the certificate market must be sold in the draft market. On ly the Banco de la Nac ion may receive funds orig­ inating abroad for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of nonresidents; these funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and are exempt from income and inheritance taxes until December 31, 1978. Foreign investment in Peru is governed by Decree- Law N o. 18900 of June 30, 1971, which ratified the Andean Common Market's policy on the treatment of foreign capital, by Decree-Law N o. 18999 of Octo­ ber 19, 1971, and by Decree-Law N o. 19232, Decree- Law N o. 19307, Decree-Law N o. 19971, and the legis­ lation ruling the Peruvian exchange system. A ll foreign investments in Peru require the prior approval of the competent authorities with a view to channeling such investments to projects considered essential for the coun­ try's development. If they wished to enjoy for their products the advantages deriving from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, foreign companies incorporated in Peru as at July 1, 1971 had to agree, by June 30, 1974, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to transform them into mixed or national companies during a maxi­ mum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. F or this purpose, mixed compa­ P E RU nies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. After June 30, 1974, the participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise had to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participation must increase to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in mining activities (including petro­ leum production) and in firms which export at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the require­ ment of gradual transformation into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty­ free program of the Cartagena Agreement. A ll insurance and reinsurance companies that were not branches of foreign firms had to become national enterprises by June 30, 1974, and all insurance and reinsurance companies established in Peru after July 17, 1973, had to be completely owned by national investors. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General M i n i ng Law (Decree-Law N o. 18880) of June 8, 1971, which replaced the M i n i ng Code of M ay 12, 1950. Companies holding mining concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government participa­ tion of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of mining contracts, the Government may grant to mining con­ cessionaires initiating large-scale investment programs tax incentives and guaranteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers of (1) recovery of investment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate; (3) payments for justi­ fied services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. M i x ed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The marketing of precious metals and their import and export are governed by Decree-Law N o. 18882 of June 15, 1971 and Supreme Decree N o. 065-71-EF of the same date. The export of gold and silver in the form of agglomerated or native metals is the monopoly of M INEROPERU, while their export in the form of pre­ cious metals is the monopoly of the Banco M ine ro del Peru. A ll imports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco M ine ro del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S /. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs ( S /. 15,000 for trips to bordering countries). Changes during 1976 Du r ing the year, additional commodities were included in the Na t ional Register of Manufactured Products. January 1. The basic limit up to which foreign exchange for tourist travel could be sold was changed from S /. 1,500 a person a day, for travel to any country, to S /. 1,200 a person a day for travel in the Amer ican continent and S /. 1,350 a person a day for travel else­ where. January 7. The tariff concessions granted to the auto­ mobile industry by Decree-Laws Nos. 19256, 19859, and 20536 were terminated (Decree-Law N o. 21098 of February 18, 1975). January 7. Imports of all alcoholic beverages and of certain foodstuffs were made through E N CI and the Empresa de Servicios de Administracion y Gerencia de la E P SA (AGEPSA), respectively (Decree-Law N o. 21353 of December 16, 1975). January 9. Decree-Law N o. 21385 increased the basic rate of the travel tax from 15 per cent for tourism and 20 per cent for business travel to 30 per cent across the board. The minimum amount payable for each day spent abroad was increased from S /. 50 to S /. 200. January 9. Decree-Law N o. 21388 reduced the per­ mitted import value of alcoholic beverages by 30 per cent. January 9. Decree-Law N o. 21389 reduced the per­ mitted import value of newsprint by 15 per cent from the 1975 level; importation was reserved for E N C I. January 9. Decree-Law N o. 21390 provided for the introduction within 90 days of a system of import licens­ ing operated under the supervision of the M in is try of Commerce. Decree-Law N o. 21466 of A p r il 13 post­ poned the introduction of the system to January 1, 1977. February 25. The Banco de la Nac ion prescribed that all applications for the purchase of exchange for tourist travel must be made 48 hours in advance and be accom­ panied by an equivalent deposit in soles, which was applied against the exchange purchased (C i rcu lar N o. 0 7 3 / 7 6 ). May 18. Decree-Law N o. 21492 and Supreme Decree N o. 0 1 2 - 7 6 -CO /AJ of the same date revised the export promotion system. F or a period of at least ten years nontraditional exports would be eligible for the follow­ ing incentives: (1) full exemption from import duties and export taxes; (2) freely transferable tax credit 370 certificates (C ER T EX) for 40 per cent (previously 35 per cent) of the export value; (3) an additional 2 per cent in C E R T EX for new exports and a further 10 per cent for exports originating outside the L ima-Ca l lao area. In exceptional cases, another 10 per cent in C E R T EX could be granted. May 18. Supreme Decree N o. 0 1 3 - 7 6 - CD /DE approved a L ist of Permitted Imports. Decree-Law N o. 21493 provided that only products included in that list could be imported from countries outside the Andean G roup, and that permitted imports would be limited to goods essential for Peru's economic develop­ ment and for the people's basic needs. May 18. Decree-Law N o. 21494 reduced the rates of tax exemption for most capital goods imports. May 18. Decree-Law N o. 21496 provided for the introduction of a general import and foreign exchange allocation regime. This system was meant to unify the existing import and exchange allocation systems. The M in is t ry of Commerce would be in charge of import guidelines, which would be implemented by the sectoral ministries. Each ministry would establish annual import programs for individual importers; on the basis of these programs, the M in i s t ry of Commerce and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in conjunction with the Plan­ ning Institute, would draw up the foreign exchange allo­ cation program. The M in is t ry of Commerce would issue import licenses and the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance would authorize the use of the necessary foreign exchange. This system took effect from January 1, 1977. Under the previous system, private sector imports required the prior authorization of the sectoral ministry concerned on the basis of an annual import forecast, but there was no national import program and specific import licenses were not required. May 18. For mineral products exported by state enterprises for processing abroad and then re-exported, the f.o.b. value could be considered to be the prevailing price of the processed product at the port of shipment abroad rather than the f.o.b. price in Peru (Supreme Decree N o. 037 -76 -EF ). May 25. Supreme Decree N o. 045-76-EF modified the limits on the transfer abroad of the sales proceeds of goods owned by departing resident foreigners and by diplomats and staff members of international organiza­ tions. May 25. Decree-Law N o. 21501 created a National Commission for Foreign Investments and Technology (CON I T E ). June 27. Supreme Decree N o. 087-76 approved the Directive for Formulating, Executing, and Evaluating the Na t ional Annual Import Program, which was to serve as the basis of the national annual import plan for 1977. June 28. The sol was depreciated in both exchange markets from S /. 45.00 = US$1 to S /. 65.00 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 28. The tax on traditional exports was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent and the C E R T EX entitle­ ment for nontraditional exports was reduced from 40 to 30 per cent. June 30. M any import duties were increased. July 15. The basic limits for student remittances were increased. The new limits varied by country and stage of study and ranged from S /. 13,000 to S /. 32,500 a month. July 20. The Banco de la Nac ion increased the basic limits for business travel expenditure; the new limits ranged from S /. 2,600 a day to S /. 3,900 a day plus representation expenses of S /. 26,000 a trip (C i rcu lar No. 0 6 6 / 7 6 ). July 20. Decree-Law N o. 21556 authorized transport companies to import 100 buses. August 10. Decree-Law N o. 21581 established the mechanism for payment of taxes on traditional exports. August 10 and August 11. Supreme Resolutions Nos. 099-76 and 100-76 expanded the L ist of Permitted Imports. August 11. Supreme Decree N o. 025-76 approved three lists of goods that would be exempt from import duties un t il the end of 1976. They were primarily agri­ P E RU cultural inputs or goods imported for agricultural pro­ cessing industries. August 19. Supreme Resolution N o. 110-76 added certain milk products to the L ist of Permitted Imports and exempted these products from the import monopoly of EPCHAP. September 22. A flexible exchange rate policy was introduced, based on small periodic modifications of the exchange rate in terms of the U . S. dollar. In both mar­ kets, the rate was depreciated from S /. 65.00 = US$1 to S /. 65.17 = U S $ 1. Several further adjustments took place during the rest of the year, with the rate moving to S /. 69.37 = US$1 by December 31. October 30. The l im it on profit remittances was raised from 14 per cent to 20 per cent a year. In addi­ tion, a higher percentage could be permitted in excep­ tional cases. November 22. The Na t ional Annual Import P ro­ gram and the Import Exchange Budget for 1977 were approved. The following change took place at the beginning of 1977: January 1. The new import system (see January 9 and May 18, above) came into force. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso. A ll exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1976 this rate was about P 7.43 per U .S. dollar. In spot transactions with their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The maxi­ mum and minimum spot buying rates are Vi of 1 per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The minimum and maximum spot selling rates are 3A of 1 per cent and WA per cent above the guiding rate, respectively. The Central Bank of the Philippines, which is not governed by the Association's trading rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange within the above margins required by the Association. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks quote cur­ rencies other than the U . S. dollar. Interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center ( F O R E X), where the Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or supplier. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank, which issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines requires the prior approval of the Board of Investments ( B O I ). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U . S. dollars. Most pay­ ments and transfers to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor­ porate, without prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of prop­ erties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. However, with­ drawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting 372 evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may under certain circumstances maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, be low). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, morals, and national security and those of certain others, mostly agricultural commodities, for protective purposes. There are no other quantitative restrictions on imports (other than imports of gold); however, foreign exchange sales for imports of specified commodities are subject to prior approval of the Central B a n k .12 Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods categories (unclassified, semiunclassified, and non­ essential consumer goods) or for completely knocked- down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. A ny importation of plant, machinery, equipment, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with maturity periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or within 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importation by any single importer of nonagricultural machinery and equipment with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 within a calen­ dar month, with the exception of (1) certified export- oriented firms, and (2) other importers who have obtained prescribed certification from the BO I. Imports from socialist or communist countries must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance ( D / A) basis, or under open account ( O / A) arrangements. The use of the D /A and O /A pro­ cedures is limited mainly to firms with a history of importing under these arrangements prior to Febru­ ary 21, 1970; to producer firms established after that date and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BO I, or 1 Authorized agent banks have been instructed not to accept appli­ cations for letters of credit or foreign exchange in respect of specified textile products that are subject to a moratorium. 2 Central Bank approval is required for payments for imports of certain synthetic fibers; certain synthetic yarns; all textile machinery and equipment; beef; ships and appurtenances thereto; and steel billets, ingots, hot-rolled coils and sheets, and other steel products listed under Commodity G r oup 681. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are franchisee! utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements for such terms of credit are made, imports in excess of US$100 (US$500 for books and supplementary readers) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines (so-called no-dollar imports) are allowed subject to prescribed conditions. Such permissible no-dollar imports are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which w i ll allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of over­ due obligations has been agreed upon. Furthermore, it is the practice of certain authorized agent banks to require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. Imports into border regions by barter traders are governed by Presidential Decree N o. 93. Payments for Invisibles V i r tua l ly all payments to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. In principle, a ll other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are sub­ stantiated by documentary evidence regarding the pur­ pose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits and regulations established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expen­ ses, maintenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by autho­ rized agent banks as follows: (1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an addi­ tional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to A f r i c a, No r th and South Ame r ica, Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, the M idd le East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Guam, Hong K o n g, Okinawa, the Republic of Ch ina, or any other neighboring country. Foreign tourist travel by Philippine citizens, however, is not normally permitted. The following limits apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad: for studies in the Un i ted States, PHILIPPINES US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. A ny scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Remittances for educational expenses and student main­ tenance abroad are allowed only to students working for a degree at duly accredited colleges or universities. The following limits apply for remittances to depen­ dents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent l iv ing in other areas. The maintenance allowances for depen­ dents are allowed only for close relatives under certain conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized beginning January 1, 1973, are permitted in fu l l, pro­ vided that remittances are not financed from domestic credit resources. Profits earned and dividends declared before January 1, 1973 (which had been unremittable for some time) may be remitted over a period of two years. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Central Bank, provided that (1) the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manu­ factured locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of marketing service contracts), and (2) contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remit­ tances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be purchased from authorized agent banks, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to Novem­ ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Ph i l ip­ pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES and permanent resident aliens, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 400 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and F i l ip ino Muslims making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central B a n k ); reports of foreign sales for copra, coconut o i l, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires .pr ior clearance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the pro­ ceeds w i ll be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports w i ll be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irre­ vocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut o i l, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of Ch ina, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equipment, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of major exports. The rate is 6 per cent for copra and centrifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut o i l, dessi- cated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, unmanufactured abaca, unmanufactured tobacco, canned pineapples, shrimps and prawns, bunker fuel o i l, bananas, cement 374 clinker, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and resi­ dues; and 2 per cent for copper ore and copper concen­ trates. However, the export taxes on copper ore and copper concentrates and cement are suspended. Certain traditional export commodities are subject to premium export duties; those on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. The Philippine Exchange Company has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with socialist and communist countries authorized under Executive Order N o. 384 is handled through the Philippine International Trad ing Corporation. Exports from border regions by barter traders are governed by Presidential Decree N o. 93. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are per­ mitted to open U .S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U . S. dollars they remit to the Philip­ pines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances by residents or nonresidents of foreign currencies for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging from 30 per cent to 70 per cent of earnings. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. The "1,500-Peso I M F - I B R D" gold coins and the "A ng Bangong L ipunan" are exempt from these requirements. Capital A ll inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain banking operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. V i r tua l ly a ll payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. F or the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in k ind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the BO I, export-oriented industries, and other (nonexport-oriented) industries not utilizing domestic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1973 in (a) export-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank (b) enterprises registered with the BO I, and (c) securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the M an i la and M ak a ti stock exchanges. M i n im um repatriation periods, however, are prescribed; thus, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign direct cash investments made after M a r ch 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except investments in domestic commercial banks, which if made after M a r ch 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are cer­ tain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before M a r ch 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after M a r ch 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BO I, producing import substitutes or exports, are repa­ triable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) invest­ ments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual install­ ments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; (4) for investments in the remaining indus­ tries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 m i l l ion or less, five equal installments after liquidation; US$0 .25 -0 .5 m i l­ l ion, seven equal annual installments after liquidation; and over US$0 .5 m i l l ion, nine equal annual installments after liquidation. Du r ing the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, liquidation proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits under C i rcu lar N o. 343, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade transac­ tions. They may, however, freely accept from non­ residents of foreign nationality deposits in nine scheduled currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. do l la rs ); such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 per cent withholding tax. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits PHILIPPINES from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The maturity may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to US$250,000 (with certain exceptions), not less than 8 years for amounts between US$250,000 and US$500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than US$500,000. F or export industries, amounts exceeding US$500,000 are approved if the credit has a maturity of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal; and for amounts less than US$150,000, 3-year or 4-year maturities may be permitted, depending on the amount of credit and the type of export industry. Interest rates may not be more than 1 Vi per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms which are in arrears with government financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan con­ tracts registered with the Central Bank prior to Novem­ ber 26, 1969. F or those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. The Management of External Debt and Invest­ ment Accounts Department in the Central Bank main­ tains a comprehensive record of credit taken up abroad by the public and private sectors. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining l iqu id assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con­ tracts or transactions involving assets within the Ph i l ip­ pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corpo­ ration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives A ct of 1967, a ll investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guar­ anteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay­ ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisite . i. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. No rma l ly, enterprises owned or controlled by foreign­ ers are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly investments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manufacturing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U .S. citizens, corporations, and associations were given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives A ct must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission from the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the G o ld Industry Assistance A ct (Republic A ct N o. 3089, as amended by Republic A ct N o. 6364 of August 5, 1971), irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage oi the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production. Exports of gold (as principal product) are subject to an export tax of 4 per cent. Primary gold producers may sell their production, in the form of refined standard bars, to authorized gold dealers of the Central Bank or retain it abroad for their own account for sale either to other authorized gold dealers or in the free market abroad. Purchases by authorized gold dealers from primary producers are based on current London market prices (as quoted in U .S. dollars, multiplied by the interbank guiding rate on the date of sale); sales by authorized gold dealers or primary producers in the free market abroad must be settled in "acceptable" foreign currencies. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized gold dealers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. A gold coin with a face value of P 1,000 has been issued which is legal tender; another gold coin valued at P 1,500 was issued in connection with the 1976 Annual Meetings of the I MF and the I B RD in M an i l a. These coins may be imported freely by travelers as well as resident physical or juridical persons. W i th this exception, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1976 January 5. Fo l low ing the abolition of NETRACOR, formerly the main channel for trade with socialist coun­ 376 tries, instructions were issued requiring residents to channel all trade with these countries through the Department of Trade and the Central Bank. January 27. The importation of refined petroleum products was limited to those made or authorized by the Philippine Na t ional O il Company. Subsequent amend­ ments to this provision (in February and Ma rch) added lubricating o i l, naphtha, and liquefied petroleum gas, while excluding white spirit and lamp o i l. March 8. The requirement that 10 per cent of export proceeds be sold to the Central Bank's Exchange Stabili­ zation Fund was abolished. This had been in force since July 1970. April 6. Applications to import specified categories of tires were to be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. April 12. "Do l l ar Boards" were established in the stock exchanges. Domestic securities listed on these Boards could only be purchased by nonresidents remit­ ting foreign exchange and by holders of Foreign Cur­ rency Deposit Accounts opened under C i rcu lar N o. 343. May 21. The Aus tr ian schilling was included in the list of foreign currencies prescribed by the Central Bank. June 14. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 525 exempted certain legal tender instruments (specifically the 1,500- Peso I M F - I B RD gold coins and the A ng Bangong L ipunan) from existing regulations prohibiting the importation of Philippine notes and coins in excess of P 5 0 0. June 22. It was announced that only foreign-owned corporate shares directly funded by inward remittances of foreign exchange through the banking system would be eligible for registration with the Central Bank for capital repatriation and remittances of profits and d iv i­ dends (Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 520 ). July 13. Applications for the importation of caustic soda were to be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. July 19. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 534 prohibited the following (other than through authorized agent banks ): (1) buying and selling of foreign exchange; (2) pairing of foreign exchange transactions between the Philippines and abroad; (3) direct outward remit­ tances in foreign exchange other than through the banks; and (4) receipt by residents of payments in foreign exchange in excess of US$100 (or its equivalent), made locally by tourists or nonresident temporary visitors for merchandise sold or services rendered. V io la t ion of these regulations was made punishable by a P 20,000 fine and imprisonment of up to five years. July 20. Applications for the importation of canned sardines had to be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. July 30. Safety hats and helmets for electricians, welders, and construction workers were transferred from the banned to the freely importable list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES August 27. In substitution for the arrangements intro­ duced on January 5, 1976, it was announced that all trade between the Philippines and the socialist countries would be channeled through a reconstituted Philippine International Trading Corporation. September 30. Presidential Decree N o. 1034 was issued, authorizing the establishment of an offshore banking system in the Philippines. Under the decree, applications to operate as an offshore banking unit (O BU) were to be submitted to the Central Bank; if approved, OBUs must commence operations within 180 days from the date of approval. September 30. Presidential Decree N o. 1035 autho­ rized domestic banks, including branches of the four foreign banks, to expand their foreign currency deposit system and to grant foreign currency loans both to offshore and Philippine firms. (Implementing regula­ tions were issued on November 26 in Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 547.) October 25. Applications for the importation of engines with six or more cylinders were to be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. October 25. Fo l low ing a sharp decline in the wor ld price of gold, the Monetary Board forwarded to the President a proposal to revive the assistance scheme introduced in 1970 for domestic producers of gold; this proposal was not activated during 1976. December 14. A ll applications for imports of milk and cream were to be referred to the Current Imports and Commodity Classification Office for prior approval. December 20. Several import items were shifted to the freely importable list. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo. A central rate of Esc 25.50 = US$1 has been established, and Portugal avails itself of wider margins. Since M a r ch 19, 1973, however, no announced margins have been observed and all spot transactions between the escudo and foreign currencies take place at fluctuating rates.1 On December 31, 1976 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Esc 31.435 and Esc 31.663, respec­ tively, per US $ 1. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commis­ sions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange.2 F or settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,8 the U .S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars." On December 31, 1976 the parity for the Macao pataca was Esc 5.015 = P 1.4 Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such trans­ actions in foreign markets and may be required to justify the amounts of their sales of escudos to non­ residents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized pur­ poses, but the M in is t ry of Finance may set limits on their foreign exchange resources and in certain circum­ stances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal; since December 31, 1971, the x On February 25, 1977, the escudo was depreciated by 15 per cent in effective terms and pegged against a basket of currencies weighted by the proportion of Portugal's receipts from trade and invisibles accounted for by these currencies. 2 The currencies dealt with in the official exchange market and quoted by the Bank of Portugal are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, N o r­ wegian kroner, pounds sterling, South A fr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. :i The only bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Israel. Settlements with Greece and Turkey, however, are also channeled through special accounts denominated in U . S. dollars. 4 On A p r il 9, 1977 the Macao pataca became linked to the Hong K ong dollar on the basis of P 107.50 = HK$100.00. 378 net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks have been subject to ceilings, and since M ay 31, 1972 their gross foreign exchange holdings have been subject to ceilings. Cap i tal held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender require­ ments may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Decree-Law N o. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents other than authorized banks. There is no forward exchange market, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with indi­ vidual customers; the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the M in is t ry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the M in is t ry of For­ eign Trade. This Directorate-General also administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulle­ tins") are issued by its Foreign Trade D iv i s ion, or by other executive departments duly authorized. A ll imports valued at over Esc 5 m i l l ion and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 m i l l ion are subject to prior autho­ rization by the Foreign Trade Con t rol Committee; this screening is intended only to prevent overinvoicing and underinvoicing. Practically all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the M in is t ry of Foreign T rade .5 Prescription of Currency Transactions with Greece, Israel, and Turkey are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U .S. dollars. Export transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, or U . S. dollars, and import transactions may be settled in any of the above currencies or in escudos. In addition, transactions with Canada, F in land, Japan, South A f r i c a, and Spain may be settled in the currencies of those countries. Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting 3 In February 1977 it was announced that state agencies undertaking export or import activities would require an authorization to charter Portuguese vessels for that purpose. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are described below. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per­ sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "T ime Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that cur­ rency, and for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries and (b) transfers between such accounts. F or all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per­ sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrange­ ments: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to resi­ dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, mainly for rea­ sons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. A ny physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitle­ ment and must pay income taxes regularly. P r ior regis­ tration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 5,000. Almost all imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." F or imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license (but for imports valued at over Esc 5 m i l l ion prior authorization must be obtained from the Foreign Trade Con t rol Comm i t tee). The validity of the bulletin P O R T U G AL is normally 90 days, but extensions are often granted. Baggage and imports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 25,000 do not require a bulletin, pro­ vided they are not expressly excluded from this exemp­ tion. Payments for imports already cleared through cus­ toms require the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made after the validity of the bulletin. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most coun­ tries that are members of the G A T T .0 The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other agricultural prod­ ucts, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished prod­ ucts, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The G A TT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and N ige r ia; imports from these G A TT members of goods liberalized if imported from other G A TT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are G A TT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. A ll imports from countries that are not members of the G A TT are based on individual authorizations; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral agreements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul­ tural imports from certain E F TA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products, except for certain pro­ tected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan­ titative restriction when originating in E F TA or E EC countries. Special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal, subject to the use of certain minimum percentages of domestic components. Imports of passenger automobiles of E F TA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of n o n - E F TA origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portu­ gal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of E EC origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from E F TA and E EC countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports from other G A TT countries are available under special open licenses. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. In addition, among the surcharged items some 7.5 per cent of total imports are fi However, in February 1977 quantitative limitations in value terms were introduced for a number of imports, mainly automobile parts, household appliances, coffee, and bananas. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P O R T U G AL subject to an advance import deposit requirement of 50 per cent which is blocked for 180 days. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gener­ ally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most trans­ actions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. F or payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the regional licensing centers (established in Portugal, Made ira, and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equiva­ lent of Esc 60,000. F or tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 1 8 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 7,000 a person a year; in addition, tourists may take Esc 1,000 out of the country in local currency for each trip. The foreign exchange allowance is the equivalent of Esc 4,000 for persons between 1 2 and 18, and of Esc 2,000 for children under 12. The export of higher amounts of domestic or foreign cur­ rency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. F or payments to countries with which Portu­ gal has bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for other current invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. App l ica t ion must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Exports and Export Proceeds P r ior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 5,000. Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulle­ t ins). Exports valued at over Esc 2.5 m i l l ion require prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Con trol C om­ mittee. Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regu­ lations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic indus­ tries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 5,000 do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign cur­ rency indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to surrender. 380 Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun­ tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay­ ments agreements. A l so, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction once the proposed operation proves to be real and l ic i t. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 1,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in banknotes, coins, and checks denominated in foreign currency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins by nonresidents for other purposes require autho­ rization by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 20,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amount. Returning residents may also bring in any amount up to Esc 1,000 in domestic bank­ notes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coins. Au thor ized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settle­ ment of external transactions. Capital A ll private capital transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 50 m i l l ion and with a maturity of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Projects are assessed according to the following criteria: job creation, transformation of natural resources, use of national goods and services, regional development, pro­ duction of goods not produced in Portugal, introduction of advanced technologies, high value added, little use of domestic credit, professional training of Portuguese workers, and reduced industrial pollution. Foreign direct investment is permitted in a ll sectors except those con­ cerned with defense and public services, i.e., water, sanitation, electricity, gas, telephone, ma i l, telecom­ munications, internal transport, monetary and financial institutions, insurance, advertising, and sectors national­ ized on A p r il 6, 1976. In the last case, the Counc il of Ministers may permit a minor participation of foreign capital when advisable in the interests of the national economy.7 The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liquida­ tion of foreign investments is authorized after five years, but guaranteed only up to a maximum of 20 per cent 7 An Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund was established in Febru­ ary 1977 to reduce the risks associated with external borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the total amount in each year. Larger amounts are subject to special authorization, as in the case of interest and dividends. Foreign loans and their repayments are authorized as necessary. Emigrants leaving Portugal are subject to the same limits as resident travelers, unless they can prove the importation of foreign exchange exceeding the limits, or the receipt of such foreign exchange, within 30 days before departure. Transfers by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other O E CD country are authorized automatically up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of each case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been residents in Portugal are authorized on the merits of each case when they return to their country of origin. Transfers to O E CD countries in respect of life insurance policies due from Portuguese insurers are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000. Capital movements and transfers of assets not mentioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of Portu­ gal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Import authorizations for industrial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Association of Industrial Users of G o l d. Domes­ tic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transaction tax of 40 per cent.8 There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U . S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1976 March 1. Decree-Law N o. 167/76 suspended the authorization of exchange houses to deal in foreign exchange and gold effective June 30, 1976. 8 The rate of tax was raised to 50 per cent on February 28, 1977 (Decree-Law N o. 75 -G /77 ). P O R T U G AL March 5. Regional licensing centers were established in Portugal, Made ira, and the Azores to authorize cer­ tain foreign exchange operations without prior approval from the Bank of Portugal. These operations would include sales of exchange for general payments abroad (excluding tourism) ranging from Esc 30,000 to Esc 60,000; for transport, insurance, and public sector requirements, up to Esc 200,000; and for travel for health purposes, up to Esc 80,000. March 6. Decree Law N o. 178/76 exempted imports valued at less than Esc 5,000 from import licensing requirements. March 12. Implementing regulations were issued for the opening and utilization of Emigrant Deposit Accounts denominated in foreign currency. March 31. Decree-Law N o. 225 -G /76 introduced, with effect from A p r il 1, certain modifications in the import surcharges of Decree-Law N o. 2 7 1 -A / 75 and extended the surcharges until January 1, 1977. April 6. Decree-Law N o. 329 /76 established a new Foreign Investment Code (see section on Cap i ta l, above). June 18. The standard tourist allocation was reduced from Esc 20,000 to Esc 7,000 a year for each person 18 years of age or over. For persons between 12 and 18, the allocation was Esc 4,000 and for children under 12, it was Esc 2,000. Persons 18 years of age or over were also permitted to export Esc 1,000 in domestic currency. Under separate regulations, special allowances valid up to 60 days would be made available for business travel. June 30. In accordance with Decree-Law N o. 167/76 issued on M a r ch 1, private exchange houses ceased their activity. July 9. Decree-Law N o. 540 /76 permitted public or nationalized credit institutions to extend loans to Portu­ guese emigrants for the purchase or construction of houses. Such loans, at concessional interest rates, could equal 50 per cent of the value of the property, pro­ vided the borrower deposited matching funds in foreign currency. October 9. The rates of the import surcharge were increased from 30 per cent on about 1.3 per cent of 1976 imports and 20 per cent on about 28 per cent of 1976 imports to 60 per cent and 30 per cent, respec­ tively. October 9. An import deposit requirement of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on about 7.5 per cent of total imports, all within the category of imports already subject to the surcharge. December 16. New regulations were introduced for the granting of domestic bank credit to importers. In the case of equipment goods, importers were required to seek foreign finance for a certain proportion of the total cost on terms approved by the Bank of Portugal in order to qualify for domestic credit to cover the remainder of the cost. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Qatar R i y a l. On M a r ch 19, 1975 the currency was pegged to the SDR at QR 4.76190 = SDR 1; subsequently, Qatar applied margins wider than 214 per cent. The Qatar Monetary Agency buys and sells U .S. dollars with a spread of 3 per m i ll around the middle rate of QR 3.94945 set on M a r ch 13, 1976; the Agency also sets buying and selling rates for the pound sterling. The commercial banks' exchange rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U . S. dollar and market rates for the currencies concerned against the U .S. dollar; on December 31, 1976, their buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were QR 3.9392 and QR 3.9597, respectively, per U S $ 1 .1 Qatar formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation in Qatar. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammu­ nition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for rea­ sons of health, morals, or security. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. 1 There are fixed rates of QR 1 — Dh 1 for U . A . E. dirhams and QR 10 = BD 1 for Bahrain dinars brought in by travelers from the United A r ab Emirates and Bahrain, up to limits of Dh 5,000 and BD 500, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Otherwise there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Foreign participa­ tion in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i c a, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1976 January 15. Qatar henceforth maintained exchange rates within margins somewhat wider than 2VA per cent but not exceeding lLA per cent. March 13. The Monetary Agency set the middle rate for the U . S. dollar at QR 3.94945 = US$1. This rate was maintained unchanged for the remainder of 1976. September 1. Travelers from the United Arab Emi­ rates and Bahrain were permitted to use U . A . E. dirhams and Bahrain dinars in Qatar at fixed rates of QR 1 = Dh 1 and QR 10 = BD 1, respectively, for transactions up to Dh 5,000 or BD 500 a person. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Romanian Leu has been estab­ lished with the F u n d. The leu is officially defined as equivalent to 0.148112 gram of fine gold, yielding offi­ cial rates as at December 31, 1976 of lei 4.97 per U . S. dollar and lei 6.67 per ruble. There is no exchange market. The National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Romania quotes official rates also for certain other currencies. Quotations for the 16 currencies defined as "freely convertible" 1 (except those for the U . S. dollar itself) and for the F inn ish markka, the Greek drachma, the Spanish peseta, and the Yugoslav dinar are based on their rates against the U . S. dollar in the countries con­ cerned; for the U . S. dollar and for inconvertible curren­ cies, exchange rates are based either on the gold content against the leu or on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. W i th the exception of capital transactions, nontrade transactions with countries other than the socialist countries listed in footnote 2 are car­ ried out at the official rate plus a premium of 141.45 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12.00 per U S $ 1; the sale of exchange at this rate to Romanian citizens for private use is subject to an additional service charge. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equali­ zation system. Excluded from this system are imports of machinery and equipment, complex equipment, assem­ blies and subassemblies, and spare parts, the domestic delivery prices of which are determined by converting the foreign price into lei at a customs valuation coeffi­ cient, to which customs duties are added. F or consumer goods a similar calculation is made; their domestic prices are fixed, and any difference between these prices and those resulting from the calculation is reflected in the profits of the importing enterprise. For all other imports (basic raw materials, materials and assemblies, subassem­ blies, spare parts for production) and for all exports, the price equalization system applies. The equalization system is designed to eliminate the effect on the earn­ ings of exporters and importers of the differences between domestic prices and foreign prices converted into lei at a uniform settlement coefficient of lei 20 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist coun­ tries 2 exchange rates are established by special agree- 1 Australian dollars. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen. Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. -Listed as A lban ia, Bulgaria, Cub a, Czechoslovakia, D . R. of Germany, Hungary, P .R. of Ch ina, Mongo l ia, D . P . R. of Ko r ea, Socialist Republic of Viet N am, Poland, and U . S . S .R. ments; for transactions with the U .S .S .R. this rate is lei 8.30 per ruble. An accounting rate of lei 20 per U . S. dollar is used for the payment and repayment of foreign loans taken up or granted by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, other official bodies, and Romanian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial cen­ trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter­ prises. Foreign trade units have autonomy in selecting their foreign partners and operate on a trade criteria basis, taking into account prices, quality, delivery and payment conditions, etc. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, both the provisions of existing trade agreements and criteria of economic effi­ ciency are taken into account. Foreign currency pro­ ceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that Bank. Exchange con­ trol is administered by the Na t ional Bank and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren­ cies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in le i, and the import and export in any form of Romanian notes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the Na t ional Bank. Neither justification nor autho­ rization is required to open such accounts, except for foreign economic organizations and agencies, which have to show evidence of permission to operate in Romania. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accoun ts are maintained in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, gold, or other precious metals (except s i lve r ); B-Accounts are maintained in noncon- 3 The countries with which bilateral payment's arrangements were in force as of December 31, 1976 were listed as A lban ia, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of Ch ina, Co lomb ia, Cyprus, Ecuador, F in land, Ghana, Greece, India, Iran, D . P . R. of K o r e a, Lebanon, M a l i, and Socialist Republic of Viet N am. Settlements with Bulgaria, Czecho­ slovakia, Cuba, D . R. of Germany, Hungary, Mongo l ia, Poland, and the U . S . S .R. took place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Econom ic Cooperation. Further­ more, certain settlements with Singapore also took place through special accounts. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R O M A N IA vertible currencies quoted by the Na t ional Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from legal sources. A-Accoun ts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Accoun t. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the curren­ cies from which the funds were derived and for pay­ ments w i th in Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions per­ mitted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts with the Savings and Consignment Bank. In addition, any bank may accept from nonresident cus­ tomers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in interna­ tional markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the Na t ional Bank. The deposits may be used for payments at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus pre­ mium (lei 12 per U . S. do l la r ). Receipts from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Romanian c i t i­ zens (such as the building of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and education) are paid out entirely in foreign currency. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be con­ verted at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level, in accordance with the priority interests for the development of the national economy. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, producing enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. After their elaboration, the plans are correlated and integrated into the single national plan, which is a synthesis of the effective production and export possi­ bilities and of the needs for imported goods. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited num­ ber of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The major part of the plan is set forth as a lump sum, without being divided by importer or exporter countries but only dis­ tinguishing, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts, between the clearing area and the convertible currency area. 384 Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authori­ zations are not restrictive or discriminatory and are issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The M in is t ry may take measures with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of the public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the G A T T. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enter­ prises as a lump sum, or for a single k ind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilat­ eral payments agreements, and in the latter case the country also is specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Invisibles A ll transactions in invisibles not connected with for­ eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by either the M in i s t ry of Finance or the competent ministry. For most categories of pay­ ments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. F or travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei in amounts the equivalent of which may exceed the maximum allocations of for­ eign exchange. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12.00 per U S $ 1. Travelers with perma­ nent residence in nonsocialist countries or Yugoslavia must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" cu r r en c i e s )4 during their stay in Roman ia. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their families; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their fami­ lies; (c) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (e) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations having their headquar- 4 The acceptable currencies, other than the U . S. dollar, are Austra­ lian dollars, Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Icelandic kronur, Indian rupees, Israel pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turk i sh liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ters in Roman ia; (f) children under 14 years; (g) teach­ ers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scientific cooperation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for touristic services; ( i) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless persons; (k) Romanian citizens possessing a va l id Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Romanian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in cate­ gories ( j ) - ( l ). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign curren­ cies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in COMTURIST shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coins by travelers are prohibited. Capital A ll inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the M in is t ry of Finance. Out­ ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain estab­ lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree­ ments have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law (Law N o. 1 of M a r ch 1971) provides for the possibility of the establishment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations; under this law and enabling Decrees Nos. 424 and 425 of 1972, foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company con­ cerned. The law and the decrees guarantee the repatria­ tion in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Foreign physical and juridical persons may keep in bank accounts in Romania their legally owned foreign currency or lei funds; balances in foreign exchange accounts are transferable abroad. Romanian nationals working abroad may hold their foreign currency savings in accounts opened with Romanian banks and use these funds for payments in Romania or abroad (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). R O M A N IA Gold Only the Na t ional Bank has authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions, in accor­ dance with the law. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1976 January 1. Fo l low ing the expiration on December 31, 1975 of the bilateral payments agreement with A lge r ia, settlements with that country were placed on a conver­ tible currency basis. March 1. Settlements of nontrade transactions with Cuba were no longer subject to the 141.45 per cent premium. June 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Cuba expired. Cuba entered the bilateral payments system of transferable rubles. June 1. The noncommercial rate for the Polish zloty was changed from lei 0.5425 per zloty to lei 0 .4619 per zloty. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Egypt expired. July 7. The noncommercial rate for the Hungarian forint was changed from lei 0.6331 per forint to lei 0.5882 per forint. November 8. By decree of the Counc il of State certain persons of Romanian origin, permanently resi­ dent in nonsocialist countries, and of Romanian citizen­ ship l iv ing abroad, were exempted from the currency conversion requirement applied to other travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries. November 11. The E EC and Romania initialed an agreement under the G A TT multifibers arrangement on trade in textiles for the calendar years 1976 and 1977. The agreement provided that Romania would restrain, at agreed levels, exports to the Community of certain textile products intended for domestic consump­ tion. The agreement would apply, retroactively, as from January 1, 1976. November 21. A ten-year agreement on economic, industrial, and technical cooperation was signed with the Un i ted States. December 9. Decree N o. 3 9 5 / 1 9 76 was gazetted. It provided that the experimental customs tariff would, with certain amendments, be applied definitively with effect from January 1, 1977. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc. On January 7, 1974 Rwanda established a central rate of RF 112 = SDR 1, and since that date the Na t ional Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has maintained a middle rate for the U . S. dollar of RF 92.84 = US$1. The Bank also quotes certain other currencies.1 The National Bank levies a fee (droit de dossier) for the validation of import and export licenses as well as transfer authorizations; the fee is RF 350 for import and export licenses or 2 per cent of the amount approved for transfers other than import payments. Payments by the Government and public sector agencies are exempt. Administration of Control Con trol over foreign exchange transactions and for­ eign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, to be determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Governor of the Na t ional Bank, and five other members, but is inoperative. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Burund i, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire are made through special accounts. Otherwise, the following applies. Payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the Na t ional Bank, which in principle is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. A ll foreign payments, except in border trade, must be made by bank transfer; for import payments, however, payment by check made out in the name of the creditor is also permitted. Exchange transactions with Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro­ hibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as nar­ cotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. A ll imports except baggage and household effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 100,000 (when settled in Rwanda francs) require licenses if payment is to take place in foreign exchange; 1 Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zaires. 386 these are issued freely and serve statistical and price comparison purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank through an autho­ rized bank on a form entitled Import License and Pay­ ments Authorization (Model I ). The approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. The Na t ional Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are examined at the Na t ional Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoicing and to ensure that importers (unless exceptionally authorized to do so) do not have recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payments or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that pay­ ments are made to the supplier or the shipper. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clear­ ance form, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs authorities. In practice, certain goods are imported mainly or exclusively from the Peo­ ple's Republic of Ch ina. Importers are authorized to pay by means of docu­ mentary credits upon shipment. A ll imports are subject to a license validation fee (droit de dossier), which is RF 350 a license. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Na t ional Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) con­ nected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages—after income tax and social security contributions and after deduction of 40 per cent of net income or RF 35,000 a month, whichever is higher— of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con­ tract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Pay­ ments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (unless a documentary credit has been opened). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with the Societe Nationale d'Assurance (SONARWA). Net profits and dividends due to non­ residents may in principle be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the Na t ional Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents and resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expatriates may not transfer their net income from rents, except after the sale of the real estate. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonres i­ dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank­ notes declared upon entry minus the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll exports, except trade samples, baggage and house­ hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Co l lec t ion of Foreign Exchange (Model E ). Declarations for all exports must be pre­ sented to the Na t ional Bank through an authorized bank for certification. A declaration is va l id for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to deter­ mine the conditions for certification. F or exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, pay­ ment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for minerals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. A ll exchange proceeds from exports must be sur­ rendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. R W A N DA Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in 8 days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services per­ formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital A ll outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guar­ antees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the Na t ional Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months; such inflows result mainly from financial transactions between Rwandese banks and their foreign correspondents. Commercial banks are not permitted to import or export domestic banknotes. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. W i th this excep­ tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1976 August 1. A large number of minor changes were made in the exchange control regulations. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On August 11, 1973, Saudi A rab ia established a par value of 0.207510 gram of fine gold per Saudi A rab ian R i y a l, corresponding at the time to SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1 or SRls 3.55001 = US$1. Saudi A r ab ia avails itself of wider margins. Since M a r ch 15, 1975 Saudi A rab ia has maintained exchange rates for the r iyal on the basis of the parity of SRls 4.28255 = S DR 1; since September 9, 1975 rates have been permitted w i th in margins somewhat wider than 2\A per cent but not exceeding llA per cent. On December 31, 1976, the Saudi A rab ian Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U . S. dollar was SRls 3.53; it sold U . S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.535 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.525 per U S $ 1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to lA of 1 per cent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. A ll settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited; there are no other restric­ tions on foreign payments. Saudi A r ab ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as from M a r ch 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health or security. Certain con­ sumer goods are imported by a state trading company. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. A ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi A rab ian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree N o. 35 of February 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi A r ab i a. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Changes during 1976 July 12. A Royal Decree promulgated the establish­ ment of the Saudi Supply Company. This state trading company would import, store, transport, and distribute foodstuffs and other goods to complement the activities of the private sector, with the objective of making adequate supplies regularly available at the lowest possible prices. December 17. Vessels more than 15 years o ld were prohibited from discharging cargo at Saudi Arabian ports unless a condition survey established their cargo- worthiness. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of its currency is the C FA F ranc ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de rAfrique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02; the B C E AO levies a commission of 1io of 1 per m i ll for transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per m i ll for transfers to countries outside the U n i o n. Exchange rates for for­ eign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur­ rency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Tssas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Emp ire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, Niger, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered for­ eign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct invest­ ment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been dele­ gated to authorized banks. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra­ tion, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of Fo r­ eign T rade ), including those for gold. Import certificates ^ he C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A rea, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Cer­ tain settlements with Guinea are made through bilateral accounts established under a payments agreement. Set­ tlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone normally are made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other coun­ tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non­ resident accounts of C FA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Trea­ sury is not permitted, except for B C E AO banknotes mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Dakar by autho­ rized banks' foreign correspondents; such banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts opened by the latter with authorized banks in Senegal. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Rhodesian and South A f r ican origin and /or provenance are prohibited from any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West A f r ican Economic Community. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French F ranc Area are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Affairs. Imports of virtually all goods from E EC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all former O E EC countries, the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from a ll n o n -EEC countries outside the French Franc A r e a. The import program 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S E N E G AL is put into effect through individual licenses, wh ich are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 25,000 (c.i.f. or delivered at the border). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported ( if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of lad ing). Furthermore, pay­ ments for imports cannot be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Pay­ ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Furthermore, authorized banks have been empowered to effect freely any payment abroad up to C F AF 15,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per­ mitted. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 150,000 a year for each person ( C F AF 75,000 for children under ten); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 7,500 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 150,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of C F AF 15,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period; how­ ever, for Mauritanian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on family status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are transferable in fu l l. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to C F AF 15,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc A rea may take 390 out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary U n i o n, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus the amount converted in Senegal plus any amount up to C F AF 50,000 reconverted by purchase of foreign banknotes), or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 50,000; other banknotes as stated above; and any means of payment, such as travelers checks, established abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. W i th a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to pre­ vent certain re-exports. Proceeds from exports to for­ eign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. They must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one month after collection when received in a non-Franc A rea currency. A ll export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi­ ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other coun­ tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a; residents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital A ll settlements between Senegal and Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Sene­ gal; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r i­ can Monetary U n i o n, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Eco­ nomic A f fa i rs .2 Foreign direct investments in Senegal;{ must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance and Eco­ nomic Affairs before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other invest­ ments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs and the B C E AO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senega­ lese Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Eco­ nomic Affairs. The following are, however, exempt from 2 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com­ panies in Senegal. 3 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. S E N E G AL this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as ind i­ cated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 40 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance and Economic Affairs. The Investment Code of June 12, 1972 (Law N o. 72-43) provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Law N o. 74-6 of A p r il 22, 1974 provides special facilities for export industries established in the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori­ zation by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti­ c les ); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By virtue of Ordinance N o. 60-21 of October 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs to con­ duct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree N o. 65-794 of Novem­ ber 19, 1965). Furthermore, imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Office for Hand i­ crafts (Office Senegalais de l'Artisanat) and the D irec­ torate of Mines and Geology (Notice to Importers of M ay 17, 1971). Changes during 1976 February 14. Decree N o. 76-195 made the importa­ tion of secondhand automobiles subject to prior autho­ rization. March 15. France suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the C FA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. July 1. The West A f r ican Clearing House formally came into operation. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S E Y CH E L L E S1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange and Trade System The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, the value of which is officially maintained at Sey Re 1 = <£ stg. 0.075. Exchange rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are determined by the commercial banks on the basis of London market rates. There is no exchange control. Settlements with Rho­ desia are prohibited. Otherwise, inward and outward payments, whether on current or capital account, are unrestricted, and export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. A gold coin with a face value of Sey Rs 1,000 is legal tender. Trade with Rhodesia is prohibited. W i th this excep­ tion, most goods may be imported freely from any 1 Seychelles is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. source under open general license. Other imports require a specific license. Exports do not normally require licenses. Changes during 1976 May 3. Statutory Instrument N o. 27 made imports of certain agricultural produce, ducks, eggs, and pork and pork products subject to specific license. May 24. Statutory Instrument N o. 37 revoked the prohibition on the import of shaving brushes manufac­ tured in or exported from Japan. May 29. Statutory Instrument N o. 39 revoked the order prohibiting the import of several scheduled items. July. A legal tender gold coin w i th a face value of Sey Rs 1,000 was issued. August 27. Seychelles acceded to the Lome Conven­ t ion. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA L EO NE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone. W i th effect from June 27, 1972, however, the leone was allowed to float w i th sterling. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals in sterling only and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £. stg. 0.50, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the cur­ rent London market rates. On December 31, 1976, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were US$0,859 and US$0 ,842, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in is t ry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into B locked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of Ch ina must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement.1 Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account or a Sterling A rea Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom, or in U . S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The G am­ bia, Ghana, M a l i, L ibe r ia, and N iger ia are normally made through the West Afr ican C lear ing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of Ch ina and Rhodesia may be obtained in leones from an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the importing country, or in any specified currency .2 Receipts from exports of diamonds and all other m in­ erals must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, through the 1 A payments agreement concluded with Gu inea in 1964 tive. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. inopera­ is account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country. Settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia may be desig­ nated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling A rea countries 3 may maintain Sterling A rea Accounts denominated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain goods may be imported under open general license from a wide range of coun­ tries. Otherwise, all imports require individual import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Rice Corporation. Authorized banks have limited authority to grant foreign exchange for import payments; for imports under specific import licenses, the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each individual license, and for imports under open general license the Bank's approval must be obtained where the payment for an individual item of import exceeds Le 5,000. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the foreign exchange availability into account in considering applications. A ll imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice entry tax of W2 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for many current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited in principle to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the transfer of higher amounts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone, buying commission is not normally per­ mitted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not normally allowed. Certain current payments are in arrears. F or travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. • Sierra Leone's regulations still provide a definition of the Sterling A r e a; the definition includes Sierra Leone and excludes South A f r i c a. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S IERRA L E O NE Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allow­ ance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of pur­ chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities sold to certain destina­ tions, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The proceeds of exports other than diamonds and other minerals must be received in the currency of the import­ ing country or any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; they must be transferred to Sierra Leone within a month of receipt and sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within three months from the date of export, unless permission to do other­ wise is obtained. The proceeds from exports of dia­ monds and all other minerals must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other speci­ fied currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country, within six months of shipment or such shorter period as may be specified. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by five locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter­ ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 per traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ­ ated outside Sierra Leone. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the invest­ ment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Con trol A ct of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis­ sion if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred 394 to a person resident outside Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside Sierra Leone, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission w i ll not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Develop­ ment Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic com­ panies undertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. By virtue of Pub l ic Notice N o. 50 of October 11, 1974, residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an autho­ rized dealer in Sierra Leone their holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemption is made for authorized dealers, diplomats, and those exempt sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling A rea (see footnote 3) and any income there­ from may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling A rea securities. A ny certifi­ cate of security purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. A ny assets held outside the former Sterling A rea by any foreign national tempo­ rarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold pro­ ducers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents have been directed to declare and make available to the Government all gold held in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses which are not normally granted. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ch ief Inspector of M ines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1976 March 18. Government No t ice N o. 264 of M a r ch 15 was gazetted notifying a ll importers that for importa­ tion under the open general license for 1976 (Notice No. 1310 of December 11, 1975), they were required to apply to the Bank of Sierra Leone, through their bankers, for foreign currency before placing orders. The Bank would give priority to essential imports; therefore, some applications might not be met in full and others not at a l l. March 18. Government No t ice N o. 267 of M a r ch 5 was gazetted. Further to Government Notices Nos. 1309 and 1310 of December 1 1, 1975, it rescinded the Bank's Notice of November 17, 1975 (which had revoked the authority of commercial banks to make payments for imports on production of shipping documents) and laid down new conditions and procedures to be followed for payments for goods imported under specific import licenses and under the open general license. Applications for payment for goods imported under specific import licenses issued in 1976 had to be forwarded to the com­ mercial banks, who would either remit the amounts under their own authority or forward the applications to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Applications for payment for goods imported under the open general license for 1976 also had to be forwarded to the importers' bankers, before orders were placed, together with supporting documentary evidence of the actual level of these goods received by the importer concerned in 1975. In addi­ tion, all orders above Le 5,000 for goods under open general license must be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone, together with supporting pro forma invoices indicating the payment terms, and approval had to be obtained before orders were placed. The remittance of buying commissions would no longer be permitted unless it proved to be absolutely necessary. F inanc ing commissions and other such finan­ cial charges also would not be permitted, while payment of interest would only be allowed on usance bills. March 24. The Bank of Sierra Leone issued a Notice to Banks containing guidelines for payment for imports. The main ones were: (1) Imports were normally to be invoiced in the currency of the exporting country, and payments were to be made in that currency, but payments could in all instances (except under bilateral agreements) be made in sterling or U . S. dollars. (2) Goods should normally be imported direct from the country of origin so as to avoid buying commissions. The use of confirm­ ing houses and establishment of letters of credit abroad S IERRA L E O NE should be avoided, and applications for both had to be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone. (3) Requests for the establishment of outward letters of credit must be declined if the amounts included charges for insurance, buying commissions of over 2 per cent, examination fees, financing commissions or other financial charges, cost of cables or postage, or bank charges. (4) Payment of air freight required the prior approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone. (5) U n t il further notice, payment for orders under specific import licenses could be effected by authorized dealers up to only Le 10,000 for each individual license, while payments for orders above that amount had to be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone; payment for goods under the open general license must be restricted to Le 5,000 for each item of import and all orders above this amount required the prior approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone. (6) A ny appli­ cation to remit foreign currency wh ich could not be executed within these guidelines had to be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone. June 10. The Exchange Con trol (Receipt of Export Proceeds) Order, 1976 of M ay 20 was gazetted. It reduced the surrender period for proceeds from exports other than diamonds and other minerals from six months to three months after exportation. June 29. The Customs Tariff (Amendment N o. 2) Order, 1976 amended the Customs Tariff A c t, 1968 by increasing the existing rates of duty on a wide range of commodities. July 1. The Customs (Amendment) A c t, 1976 of June 28 was gazetted. It made a ll actions and discre­ tionary powers of the Comptroller of Customs subject to the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. July 1. The West A f r ican Clearing House formally came into operation. September 2. Pub l ic Notice N o. 30 of the same date was gazetted. It amended Regulation 17 of the Customs Regulations by introducing an invoice entry tax of IV2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of all imported goods, except those specifically exempted by the M in is ter of Finance, payable at the time of entry of the goods. October 28. Government Notice N o. 1012 was gazetted. It contained a General Notice to Importers and a schedule of goods to be imported under specific import license. It also granted an open general license for all goods other than those specified in the schedule. In addition, provision was made for the issue of special unnumbered licenses for imports involving no transfer of foreign exchange. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on January 7, 7977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Do l la r, and Singapore avails itself of wider margins. Since June 20, 1973, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate within announced margins. The closing selling and buying rates in the Singapore foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar on Decem­ ber 31, 1976 were S$2.4545 and S$2.4555 per US $ 1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. The authorized banks are free to deal spot and for­ ward in a ll currencies. Forward cover on transactions of residents in the As ian currency market requires the prior approval of the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore. App roval is not required for forward cover for any period in respect of import or export transactions. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in the two countries concerned, at the commercial banks and with the monetary authorities. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore administers exchange control. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments as well as certain capital pay­ ments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Department of the M in is try of Finance administers import and export controls; the power to approve imports and exports has been dele­ gated to the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency Singapore has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U . K. Exchange Con trol A c t, 1947 but under current U . K. exchange control regulations con­ tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling A r e a. Singapore has made no changes in the list of Scheduled Territories (covering Singapore and a ll other former Sterling A rea territories) which appears in the first schedule to the Singapore Exchange Con trol A c t, other than adding Indonesia, the Philippines, and Tha i land. A ll payments to and from the Scheduled Territories may be made in either a Scheduled Territory currency or a foreign currency.1 Certain payments to Romania must be made through special accounts. Pay­ ments to other countries outside the Scheduled T e r r i­ tories except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any foreign currency other 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies of countries outside Scheduled Territories. the 396 than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rho­ desia must be obtained in either Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Accoun t, or in any specified currency .2 Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other Scheduled Terri­ tories are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Terri­ tories are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts: the latter may be denominated in Singapore dollars or other Scheduled Territory currencies. External Accounts may be credited with (1) approved payments by resi­ dents of Singapore and residents of other Scheduled Territories; (2) interest on the accounts; (3) payments from other External Accounts; (4) proceeds from sales of gold and foreign currencies; and (5) payments, including cash, up to S$50,000 or its equivalent in any of the Scheduled Territory currencies. External Accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Singapore and residents of other Scheduled Territories; (2) payments to other External Accounts; (3) the cost of purchases of foreign currencies and gold; and (4) withdrawals in cash. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments V i r tua l ly all imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are con­ trolled for health or security reasons. A ll imports originating in Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding bran) and refined sugar, irrespective of or ig in; (2) textile fabrics, when originating in Japan; and (3) all goods originating in, wholly or mainly manufactured in, or consigned from A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Czecho­ slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Mon­ golian People's Republic, and V iet N am. License appli­ cations for goods under (3) must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco L t d ., which levies a sur­ charge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries (except the People's Republic of C h i n a ). Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur- 2 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rency regulations are observed; for imports of Bulgarian, Hungarian, No r th Ko rean, and Romanian origin this permission must be obtained from the exchange control authorities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments of a current nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are also permitted freely. Au thor ized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no dele­ gation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Payments up to S$50,000 are not subject to exchange control formalities. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$50,000 a person a year, and available in any currency, for travel outside the Scheduled Territories and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application; the same allocation is available only in foreign currencies for travel in the Scheduled Territories other than Japan. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are freely permitted; authorized banks are allowed to approve the applications. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely take out any amount in foreign and Scheduled Territory banknotes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Aus tr ia, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxem­ bourg, the Netherlands, No rway, Sweden, the Un i ted K ingdom, and the Un i ted States are subject to quantita­ tive restriction. Exports of a few other items are restricted irrespective of destination. Other commodi­ ties do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$50,000 in value to countries outside the Scheduled Territories; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in specified currencies and are sold to an authorized bank, normally within six months of ship­ ment. F or exports to Bulgaria, No r th Ko rea, Hungary, and Romania, exchange control approval is required irrespective of the value of the goods. Export proceeds in specified currencies up to S$3 m i l l ion for each recipi­ ent may be retained and may be used to make commer­ cial current payments and any other approved payments to residents and nonresidents of Singapore. S INGA PORE Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange con t rol requirements govern ing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds, including the facility for the retention and use of up to S$3 m i l l ion in specified currencies for each recipient. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign and Scheduled Territory banknotes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other Scheduled Territories. Capital transfers from Singapore to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval. Inward transfers of capital from such countries (with the exception of borrowing from residents of such countries) do not require approval and the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes also is exempt from individual exchange con­ trol approval; however, government approval is required for investment in most residential property and in any vacant land other than land already designated prior to September 1 1, 1973 for industrial or commercial use. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sched­ uled Territories (other than Rhodesia) in Singapore stocks and bonds, whether quoted or not, is freely per­ mitted in any currency, including Singapore dollars from an External Account. Proceeds from sales of Singapore securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries out­ side the Scheduled Territories; the approval authority for such transfers has been delegated to authorized banks. Borrowing from local banks by nonresident- controlled companies is not restricted. Investments by Singapore residents in countries out­ side the Scheduled Territories normally may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; however, residents are permitted to invest without limit in certain prescribed external bonds, and up to certain prescribed limits in securities denominated in foreign currencies, in deposits in foreign currencies with autho­ rized banks or with As ian Currency Un i ts, in properties outside the Scheduled Territories, and in foreign cur­ rency life and endowment policies. The exchange allow­ ance for cash gifts and loans by individuals and charitable organizations resident in Singapore to ind i­ viduals and charitable organizations resident outside the Scheduled Territories is S$50,000 a remitter a calendar year, available in any currency; the same allocation is available in foreign currencies where the beneficiaries are resident in the Scheduled Territories other than Singa­ pore. Negotiable certificates of deposit in any currency that have been issued in Singapore, as well as other bearer securities prescribed by the Monetary Au thor i ty, must be deposited with an authorized depositary. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S INGA PORE Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an As ian Currency Un i t, and thus to operate in the As ian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in currencies other than Singapore dollars from nonresidents of Singapore and, up to certain prescribed limits, deposits in foreign currencies from residents of Singapore. As ian Currency Units are required to obtain specific exchange control approval for granting loans to residents of Singa­ pore, except loans to finance outstanding export bills. A ll transactions must be conducted over accounts held in the Asian Currency Units of the banks concerned. The spot and forward foreign exchange positions of banks are supervised by the Monetary Authority. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access; payments by residents to nonresidents must take place in a Sched­ uled Territory currency to an External Account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from nonresidents may be accepted in any currency, including by debit to an External Account. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. A S$150 commemorative gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, is legal tender; this coin is treated for exchange control purposes as gold rather than local currency and its export and import is dealt with in the same way as that of gold so that it may be freely imported and exported by travelers. A few other legal tender gold coins issued subsequently by the Board of Commissioners of Currency are also treated as gold for exchange control purposes. The price of gold used for the manufacture of orna­ ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese G o ld and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1976, this price was about S$490 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$450 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1976 January 16. Import licenses were no longer required for aluminum sheets, certain machinery, and sewing machines from Japan. Export licenses were no longer required for round steel bars and cement. February 4. Three non-Scheduled Territory member countries of the Association of South East As ian Nations —Indonesia, Thailand, and the Philippines— were included in the list of Scheduled Territories. Transfers to and from these countries could henceforth be made freely. External Accounts of residents of these countries were redesignated as Resident Accounts, and they were permitted to operate Foreign Currency Accounts. February 4. The restrictions on (1) the import of currency notes of Brunei, India, Indonesia, Ma lays ia, 398 and Singapore, and (2) the export of currency notes of Singapore, the Scheduled Territories other than Singapore, and countries outside the Scheduled Terri­ tories were removed. As a result, the import and export of all domestic and foreign banknotes became com­ pletely free. February 4. The limit governing investments by residents in specified currency deposits and specified currency securities was increased from S$ 100,000 to S$250,000 for individuals and from S$3 m i l l ion to S$5 m i l l ion for corporations. In addition, the permission for residents to make such investments was extended to foreign currency deposits, foreign currency securities, and properties outside the Scheduled Territories. February 4. Insurance companies were given general permission to issue life and endowment policies in for­ eign currencies to residents of the Scheduled Territories. They were permitted to issue such foreign currency policies to residents of Singapore up to S$250,000. The requirement imposed on authorized banks to ask for documentary evidence before approving certain types of applications submitted by insurance companies was removed. February 4. A ll existing limits for the allocation by authorized banks of exchange for various types of travel, and for their sales of foreign currency notes to persons resident outside Singapore, were increased. Further­ more, authorized banks were permitted to provide travel exchange without l im it to persons resident in the other Scheduled Territories. The basic exchange allocation for Singapore residents for tourist and business travel out­ side the Scheduled Territories was increased to S$50,000 a person a calendar year; this allowance could be made available in foreign currency notes. February 4. The limit that was delegated to the Con­ troller and Registrar of Imports and Exports to approve exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories was increased from S$20,000 to S$50,000. In addition, the Controller henceforth could also approve (1) exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories without payment, on the grounds that the goods were originally imported without payment; and (2) exports of ships and aircraft. The general limits for certain categories of goods to be exported without payment were increased from S$20,000 to S$50,000. February 4. The prescribed evidence of import (origi­ nal copies of invoices endorsed by the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports) ceased to be required in support of applications to make import payments to residents outside the Scheduled Territories. February 4. The requirement of completion of exchange control forms for transferring funds to coun­ tries outside the Scheduled Territories or for purchas­ ing foreign currencies was made uniform and was lim­ ited to transactions in excess of S$50,000. Documentary evidence at the time of remittance generally was no longer required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 4. Credits, including cash payments, to External Accounts were freely permitted up to S$50,000 or its equivalent in any Scheduled Territory currency. Previously, credits to such accounts were restricted where no purpose of payments was stated. February 4. Authorized banks were delegated with powers to approve the repayment of approved foreign currency loans, certain shipping and air transport pay­ ments, and certain payments related to travel services. February 4. The l im it for the approval by authorized banks of personal remittances by residents was increased from S$30,000 a remitter a calendar year to S$50,000 a remitter a calendar year for (1) support of dependents and relatives, and (2) gifts and personal loans to ind i­ viduals or charitable organizations resident outside the Scheduled Territories. February 4. The Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports was delegated with powers to approve exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories where goods are sold to or owned by residents in any Scheduled Territory. Previously, his powers to approve exports were limited to goods sold to or owned by resi­ dents of the Un i ted K ingdom or Ma lays ia. February 4. The maturity period of six months for­ merly imposed on forward exchange contracts entered into between authorized banks and nonbank residents of Singapore was abolished. At the same time, residents of other Scheduled Territories were permitted to pur­ chase Singapore dollars spot or forward from authorized banks against payment in foreign currencies or Sched­ uled Territory currencies. February 4. The export of postal orders to countries outside the Scheduled Territories was permitted up to S$50,000. February 4. The documentation requirements to sup­ port applications for credits and guarantees in favor of or on behalf of persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories were abolished. The authority for banks to issue guarantees in favor of persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories against full cash cover was extended to include all types of guarantees. Counter guarantees from banks outside Singapore were also permitted. March 2. W i th retroactive effect from January 1, 1976, the budget exempted from estate duty nonresident- held tax-free government bonds, approved As ian dollar bonds, negotiable certificates of deposit issued by Asian Currency Units of approved banks, and deposits with Asian Currency Un i ts. May 1. The Vi of 1 per cent service charge for S INGA PORE endorsement of import declarations for imports from the People's Republic of Ch ina was abolished. June 25. Twelve types of goods, including unassem­ bled air conditioners, refrigerators, and television sets, were exempted from import duty. July 2. The licensing requirement for exports of rice, sugar, and Singapore one-cent coins was revoked. November 23. The definition of "depositable securi­ ties" (covering negotiable certificates of deposit issued in Singapore and expressed in Singapore dollars or foreign currencies) was amended to include bearer securities prescribed by the Monetary Authority (other than nego­ tiable certificates of deposit issued in Singapore). Regu­ lations on dealings in such prescribed bearer securities were issued. F or the time being, only one such security was listed. December 3. Export licenses ceased to be required for nonferrous metal scrap. The following changes took place at the beginning of 1977: January 1. Authorized banks were delegated with powers to approve the following additional types of payments: (1) transfers of legacies and inheritances to residents outside the Scheduled Territories; (2) workmen's com­ pensation on account of injury or death due to benefi­ ciaries who are resident outside the Scheduled Te r r i­ tories; (3) payments to residents outside the Scheduled Territories in respect of sale of nonresident properties, vehicles, etc., held in Singapore; (4) payments of judg­ ment debts to residents outside the Scheduled Territories; (5) cash remittances of gifts and /or loans by charitable organizations resident in Singapore to individuals and charitable organizations resident outside the Scheduled Territories; (6) cash remittances of gifts and /or loans by individuals and charitable organizations resident in Singapore to individuals and charitable organizations resident in the Scheduled Territories other than Singapore; (7) expenses incurred by credit card holders outside the Scheduled Territories payable in foreign currencies; (8) exchange facilities in foreign currencies for travel within the Scheduled Territories; and (9) let­ ters of credit expressed in foreign currencies covering payment for goods between two residents of Singapore. January 1. The limit governing investments by individuals resident in Singapore in foreign currency deposits, foreign currency securities, properties outside the Scheduled Territories, and foreign currency life and endowment policies was raised from S$250,000 to S$500,000. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118193 gram of fine gold per Somali Sh i l l ing, and Somalia avails itself of wider mar­ gins. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in some of the "convertible" currencies 1 with authorized dealers at fixed rates, taking into con­ sideration those in leading exchange markets in Europe; on December 31, 1976, the Bank's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, unchanged since 1973. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign cur­ rencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (includ­ ing banking commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not con­ duct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of Commerce is the principal govern­ ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which for­ eign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The sole commercial bank has been appointed as authorized exchange dealer. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange con­ trols on behalf of the M in is t ry of Commerce. An Adv isory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Au thor i ty, and the police, advises the M in is try of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regula­ tions and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Lo c al Licensing Committees, usually con­ sisting of members representing the M in is t ry of C om­ merce, the M in is t ry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Au thor i ty, and the police, decide on applica­ tions for licenses for imports and exports and for trans­ fers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the Na t ional Licens­ ing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law N o. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments, as extended and amended by 1 The "convertible" currencies are listed as Dj ibouti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 400 Decree-Law N o. 3 of M a r ch 3, 1968 and Law N o. 17 of June 15, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of Ch ina and the U .S .S .R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1 ); however, resi­ dents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospecting or consultancy services. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The import of a few commodities from all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons.2 Individual licenses are required for a ll other commodi­ ties. Some of these commodities may be imported only from specified sources.3 Certain other commodities are liberalized when originating in E EC countries. State agencies are responsible for all commodity imports. The state trading organization, the Na t ional Agency for Trade (Ente Nazionale per il Commercio or E N C ), is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fats, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, cement, and certain other commodities; some are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton c lo th ). The Somali Petroleum Agency and the Na t ional Petroleum Agency are the only importers of fuel and fuel products, batteries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related mate­ rials. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construc­ tion materials. 2 Butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made cloth­ ing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. nT he permitted origin varies from commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply generally are Egypt and /or the U .S .S .R. Made-up articles and related products may be imported only when originating in A fr ican or A r ab countries, member countries of the E E C, People's Republic of Ch ina, German Democratic Republic, North Korea, or U . S . S .R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution If goods imported differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. A ll imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra­ tive tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc .). Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transac­ tion meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of pay­ ment) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports from neighboring areas 4 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are nor­ mally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Comm i t­ tees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. F or tourist travel by residents, there is an allowance of the equiva­ lent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out without authoriza­ tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. 4 Ad en, Dj ibout i, Muk a l l a, E th iop ia, and Kenya. S OM A L IA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marketing Board. The E NC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. A ll export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export pro­ ceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance pay­ ment deposit of 50 per cent of the value of livestock exports and 15 per cent of the value of other exports is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the autho­ rized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may grant exemptions from the sur­ render requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Cap i tal transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in M a r ch and June 1968). In accordance with the provi­ sions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the M in is try of Planning and Coordination. F or "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irrigation, improvement of land, establishment of fac­ tories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and d r i l l ing activities in connection with o il and mineral exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a l im it of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S OM A L IA abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The M in is t ry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or par­ tial exemption to any enterprise from import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. For investments regis­ tered prior to M a r ch 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or after M a r ch 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of resi­ dent employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numis­ matic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permis­ sions issued by the Central Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. G o ld imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 karats within one month. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in E EC countries and are subject to a 10 per cent duty when of other or ig in. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per South A f r ican Rand. On June 24, 1974 South A f r i ca began an exchange rate policy of independent managed float­ ing, but since June 27, 1975 a policy has been followed of keeping the buying and selling rates for the U . S. do l­ lar constant for longer periods at a time. As at Decem­ ber 31, 1976 the South A f r ican Reserve Bank quoted a middle exchange rate for the U . S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1, unchanged since September 22, 1975. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the Reserve Bank's rates for the U . S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U . S. dollar. The commercial banks' spot public rates for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were US$1.1529 buying, and US$1.1471 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and w i th overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover for private sector transac­ tions in U . S. dollars only; such cover is given to autho­ rized dealers at a charge of 1 per cent per annum, for import and export transactions and for foreign loans raised in their own names. There is also a market in which securities rand (the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South A f r i ca owned by nonresidents other than former residents of South Afr ica) may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually incurring a discount on the official market rate; at the end of 1976, that discount was about 40 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 31 being R 1 = US$0.66. South A f r i ca formally accepted the obligations of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South A f r i ca (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these, as well as Transkei, are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South A f r i c a, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary A r e a. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secre­ tary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsi­ bility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the authorized dealers much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is pro­ posed, upon presentation of other suitable documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency A ll countries outside the Rand Monetary A r ea con­ stitute the Nonresident A rea. Settlements within the Rand Monetary A r ea take place in rand on ly .1 Swazi banknotes and coins are convertible into rand at par without restriction, but they are not legal tender in South A f r i c a. Settlements by residents of the Rand Monetary A rea with residents of the Nonresident A rea, except Botswana and Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and from a Nonresident Account and in any specified cur­ r e n c y2 and, for outgoing payments only, in any other foreign currency.3 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Botswana Account, in Botswana currency, in rand from a local Nonresident Account to a Botswana Account (for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand from a local Nonresident Account (for inward payments o n l y ), or in any specified currency (for inward payments o n l y ). Settlements with Rhodesia may be made in rand to and from a local Rhodesian or other nonresident account, in Rhodesian currency and, for inward payments only, in any specified currency. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Monetary A rea are divided into Botswana Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, Securities Rand Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r i ca of Botswana currency and of any specified cur­ rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South Afr ican residents, for pay- 1 In September 1974 Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni (plural emalangeni), to replace the rand. Lilangeni banknotes are freely convertible into rand, at par, at the Monetary Authority of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in South A f r i c a. Checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for payment in South A fr ica and Lesotho must be denominated in rand. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F i ji dollars, French francs, Hong K ong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, "«'enya shillings, Malagasy francs, Ma lawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U . S. dollars, za'ires, and Zambian kwacha. 3 Foreign currency is any currency other than currency that is legal tender in South A f r i c a. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O U TH A F R I CA merits to the account holder while temporarily resident in South A f r i ca for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r ica of Rhodesian currency and of any specified cur­ rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South Afr ican residents, for pay­ ments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r ica for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Rhodesia, and the Rand Monetary A rea. They may be credited with all autho­ rized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r ica of specified currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South A f r i c a. They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Rhodesian Account or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary A rea; for the cost of pur­ chases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r ica for short periods. Securities Rand Accounts are the accounts of nonresi­ dents of the Rand Monetary A rea, other than emigrants from that A rea, to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securi­ ties and other investments in South A f r i c a, owned by nonresidents, excluding former residents of South A f r i c a, and by immigrants within three years of arrival. Johan­ nesburg Stock Exchange dealers are permitted to quote prices for securities rand and its members are permitted to buy and sell securities rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer securities rand balances from one Securities Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. In addition to transfer to another Securities Rand Account, funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvest­ ment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad); to acquire central government, municipal, or public utility stock with a maturity of five years or more (the redemption proceeds of which are transferable abroad when held for a continuous period 404 of at least five years to redemption); and to tender for five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Treasury (the redemption proceeds of which are also transferable). The proceeds of South A f r ican securities held by immi­ grants prior to their arrival in South A f r ica or acquired abroad within three years of their arr iva l, are also credited to Securities Rand Accounts, with the excep­ tion of funds of persons who had been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied .4 They must be credited with that part of an emigrant's assets which exceeds the amount that is transferable on departure. Such funds may not be transferred from South A f r ica or to another Blocked Account in South A f r i c a, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within cer­ tain limits for the holder's l iv ing expenses while visiting South A f r i c a, or invested in any securities which are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Blocked rand may also be used, within a limit of R 30,000 for each emigrant family unit, to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents of South A f r ica only, of five-year nonresident bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable at face value. The redemp­ tion proceeds are transferable in the foreign currency of the monetary area in which the holder is resident. Imports and Import Payments A ll importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com­ modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Ma law i, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Con t rol Regulations for 1977, as announced in December 1976, distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: (1) Goods which may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 583 tariff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 27.3 per cent of 1976 imports. (2) Goods which may be imported only under per­ mit but subject to automatic licensing for bona fide merchants and manufacturers. These fall under an unspecified number of tariff headings or subheadings and correspond on a value basis to 59.6 per cent of 1976 imports. (3) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined from time 4 The local sale proceeds of South A fr ican assets, including South A fr ican securities, owned by residents of Botswana must be credited to a Securities Rand Account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to time. These account for about 4.6 per cent in value of 1976 imports. (4) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods individually are issued. They cover some 8.5 per cent of 1976 imports. Since August 2, 1976 most imports for home con­ sumption are subject to a rand deposit of 20 per cent of the f.o.b. price, payable to the Controller of Customs and Excise at the time of customs clearance.1 The deposit, which may be financed abroad, is transferred to the Reserve Bank and is refunded, without interest, by the Bank six months after it is lodged. Exemptions include crude petroleum and certain petroleum products, government imports, certain goods imported for use in exports, goods exempted by the Secretary for Industries as essential capital goods for new projects, goods imported exclusively for re-export in their original form to a country other than Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi­ land, and goods valued at R 100 or less. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign­ ment documents (proof of importation), an importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except for certain capital goods, and provided that the terms are normal in the trade concerned. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. A ll payments to nonresidents of the Rand Monetary A rea for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Au thor i ty is, how­ ever, delegated to the authorized dealers to approve cer­ tain payments without limitation and others up to estab­ lished limits. F or current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r i c a, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident- owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favor­ able consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or securities rand or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely trans­ ferable at the official market rate of exchange to the owner's country of residence. L im i ted amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family mainte­ nance, etc., are authorized. 5 The import deposit scheme was discontinued on February 2, 1977. S O U TH A F R I CA The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a ch i ld under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 500 for an adult (R 200 for a child under 12) for travel to Ango la, Botswana, M a l aw i, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Zaire, and Zambia. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 100 a day, with a maximum of R 3,000 in a calendar year. The applicable allowance for business trips to the neigh­ boring territories mentioned above is R 500 a year. Residents leaving South A f r i ca for destinations outside the Rand Monetary A rea may take out not more than the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes. South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 50 but are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allow­ ance. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r ica within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r i c a. These l im i­ tations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reason­ able amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South A f r i c a. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela­ tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi­ land ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to a ll destinations but no import certificate is required where the goods are exported to the Un i ted K ingdom, any Commonwealth country, any Br i t ish colony, pro­ tectorate, or trust territory, or the Un i ted States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary A rea other than Botswana is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South A f r i ca and surrendered within six months from the date of shipment and seven days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries out­ side the Rand Monetary A r e a, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 50 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O U TH A F R I CA There are no limitations on the import of domestic cur­ rency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital6 A ll inward loan transfers require specific approva l ,7 while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surren­ dered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary A rea require the approval of the South A f r ican Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed; transfers to Lesotho and Swaziland do not require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the pur­ chase of South A f r ican (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South A f r ican residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. A p p l i­ cations by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring territories (this term excludes Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei) funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Authorized dealers may allow their customers to transfer monetary gifts and loans up to R 100 for each applicant during a calendar year to persons nor­ mally resident outside South A f r ica or to South Afr ican residents temporarily overseas for the sole purpose of study. For three years after their arrival in South A f r i c a, immigrants (excluding former South Afr ican residents) may dispose of their foreign assets (including foreign cash funds) held outside the Rand Monetary Area or otherwise invest them (including by purchase of South Afr ican securities abroad). The proceeds from the sale of all South Afr ican securities brought in by immigrants must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts; the restriction on the free use of such funds locally is nor­ mally for the first three years of the immigrant's resi- For exchange control purposes, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Mone­ tary A r ea. Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public com­ panies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds and /or participations in mortgage bonds, and National Savings Certificates. The terms scrip and share certificates include any temporary or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 7 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for property development, speculation, or consumer credit. Authorized dealers gen­ erally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South A fr ican foreign trade and other approved purposes. 406 dence, but may be removed freely (except for former South A f r ican residents) on amounts up to R 20,000 or, subject to Reserve Bank approval, on additional amounts, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current l iv ing expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South Afr ican securities by nonresidents of South A f r ica to residents must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized dealers without reference to the South A f r i­ can Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South A f r ica of the proceeds on maturity of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they were registered con­ tinuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption: normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South A f r ica by certain "dy ing" mines in regular periodic installments not exceed­ ing in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share: transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of securities rand balances; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a non­ resident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South A f r ica that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred outside South A f r ica as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permis­ sible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account, and the value of any foreign assets is deducted from the applicable settling-in allowance. Emigrants may, however, utilize such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a family unit to subscribe to the five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Government on a tender basis (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The South A f r ican Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mort­ gage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances or undis­ tributed current profits, or for the transfer of any divi­ dends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South A f r ica of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. There are normally four ways in which holders of securities rand (including holders resident in Botswana) can repatriate funds from South A f r i c a: (1) by taking ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O U TH A F R I CA ber 5, 1975, came into effect. "Blocked rand" arising from investment by nonresidents were redesignated "securities rand"; the latter term denoted the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South A f r i ca owned by non­ residents, excluding former residents of South A f r i c a, as well as former Blocked Account balances of persons who had immigrated but had not yet completed three years of residence in South A f r i c a. Emigrants' funds blocked in South A f r ica continued to be referred to as blocked rand and remained subject to the same restric­ tions as before. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange was permitted to quote prices for securities rand, and its members were permitted to buy and sell securities rand on behalf of nonresidents. Only branches of those authorized dealers that had been appointed as authorized banks could main­ tain Securities Rand Accounts. Authorized banks were permitted to transfer securities rand balances from one Securities Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. Trading in securities rand began on the same date. The opening quotation was US$0 .97-0 .98 per R 1. Purchases by nonresidents of nonquoted securities con­ tinued to be settled at the official exchange rate (Exchange Con trol Circulars Nos. B.165 and B.166 of January 3 0 ). February 3. The Securities Con t rol Notices dated October 1, 1969 were amended by the substitution of the term securities rand for the term blocked rand, wherever the latter occurred (Exchange Con trol C i r c u­ lar N o. B .167 ). February 17. The Minister of Finance announced that the surrender period for export proceeds and other foreign currency accruals was reduced from 30 days to 7 days after collection or receipt. March 17. Fo l low ing the statement in Parliament by the Minister of Finance on February 17, the Reserve Bank drew attention to the requirement that import payments could normally be made only on submission of documentary evidence that the goods had been shipped. It was also announced that advance payments for imports would only be allowed by special concession. Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar N Q, of up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above)—these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974) for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; (3) by exporting South A f r ican shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them outside South A f r i ca at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South A f r ican quotation; and (4) by selling the funds to another nonresident for foreign currency. On Decem­ ber 31, 1976, the discount on securities rand in terms of the official exchange rate was about 40 per cent. Gold Residents of South A f r i ca may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents of South A f r i ca other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and profes­ sional users are not allowed to purchase, ho ld, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. A ll exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry w i ll be brought back to South A f r i ca on the traveler's return) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia) subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, authorized dealers may, without reference to the Reserve Bank, allow residents to export for numis­ matic purposes currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year; they may also allow residents to export one Krugerrand coin during a calendar year to a nonresident in lieu of a monetary gift. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, within one month of produc­ tion, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The M i nt from time to time strikes gold coins without a face value (Krugerrand) that are legal tender but do not circulate freely in South A f r i ca as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident co l­ lectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1976 February 2. The changeover from blocked rand to securities rand, which had been announced on Decem­ S O U TH A F R I CA June 9. The Reserve Bank no longer was prepared to give favorable consideration to requests for the repa­ triation of funds that had previously been introduced by immigrants through normal banking channels with a view to reimporting the funds by means of a share transaction or through the medium of securities rand (Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar N o. B .172 ). June 9. The number of Krugerrand coins that autho­ rized dealers could without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export was reduced from three to one a person a calendar year (Exchange Control C i rcu lar N o. B .172 ). June 9. Fo l low ing the extension in August 1975 of control over local borrowing by foreign-controlled South A f r ican firms to certain leasing arrangements, authorized dealers were advised that henceforth all forms of leasing or rental of fixed property would, as a general rule, be regarded as local borrowing. New contracts had to be submitted to the Reserve Bank for exemption from Exchange Con trol Regulation 3 (1) ( f ). Such borrowings previously disregarded by the Reserve Bank as a form of local borrowing would be reconsidered as and when the overall local borrowing facilities of the companies con­ cerned came up for review (Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar N o. B .173 ). July 5. Imports of cattle, sheep, pigs, and goats from all sources were suspended. July 21. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs issued a joint statement announcing the imposition of a temporary import deposit scheme, with effect from August 2. Acco rd ing to a proclamation gazetted on July 23, a deposit of 20 per cent, calculated to the nearest rand of the f.o.b. price, was payable on all goods imported into the Republic of South A f r ica and cleared with effect from August 2, 1976, except in respect of those categories of goods specifically exempted. The deposit was payable to the Controller of Customs and Excise at the time of direct entry of the goods for home consumption or entry for storage in a customs and excise warehouse. No interest was paid on such deposits, which would be repaid to the importer after a period of six months by the Reserve Bank. The exemptions were as follows: (1) M ine ral fuels, mineral oils and products of their distillation, bituminous substances, and mineral waxes; (2) state importations and certain other goods specified in the proclamation and entered in terms of Schedule N o. 4 to the Customs and Excise A c t, 1964; (3) any goods the f.o.b. price of which exceeded R 10,000 and in respect of which there was at the time of entry furnished to the Controller a certificate, issued by the Secretary for Industries, declaring that the goods were essential capital goods or equipment required in connection with the carrying out of a development project for purposes other than replacement of existing goods or equipment; (4) goods imported exclusively for re-export in their original form to a country other than Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland; (5) goods the f.o.b. 408 price of which amounted to R 100 or less; and (6) goods imported into or destined for Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, on the presentation of a certificate issued by the responsible authorities in those countries. August 2. Authorized dealers were permitted, without reference to the Reserve Bank, to allow those of their import customers who were unable to raise the necessary finance locally, to borrow funds abroad to enable them to meet their commitments under the import deposit scheme. The loans had to be for a minimum period of six months and the interest rates had to be reasonable in relation to the current market rates; the Reserve Bank would not approve early repayment or the provision of forward exchange cover (Exchange Con t rol Circular N o. B .175 ). August 12. Residents of Lesotho and Swaziland ceased to be regarded as nonresidents for purposes of securities control. Accord ing ly, authorized banks could, upon application to them, cancel the restrictive endorse­ ment on South A f r ican securities owned on August 12, 1976 by residents of Lesotho and Swaziland, provided that they satisfied themselves that the securities were not acquired outside the Rand Monetary A rea after June 16, 1961. Subject to the same conditions, securities rand balances held by residents of Lesotho and Swaziland could be released (Exchange Con t rol C i rcu lar N o. B.176). August 12. Fo l low ing the announcement by Botswana of its withdrawal from the Rand Monetary Area and the introduction on August 23 of its own national currency, authorized dealers were advised that, with effect from August 23, a ll currency transactions between residents of the Republic of South A f r i ca and residents of Bo­ tswana would be governed by the South A f r ican exchange control rulings. Certain amendments to the rulings would become effective on that date. The definition of the Rand Monetary A rea was modified by the deletion of Botswana. A new type of rand account, Botswana Accounts, was introduced; these were defined as the accounts of persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. A new definition of securities was provided. It was stated that numerous further alterations to the rulings would be necessary. It was announced that authorized dealers had to com­ ply with the following procedures with effect from August 23: (1) Accounts of residents of Botswana with authorized dealers and building societies had to be redesignated as Botswana Accounts; while balances on the latter would be transferable to Botswana, they would not be convertible into any foreign currency other than the pula. (2) The local sale proceeds of South African assets (including South A f r ican securities) owned by residents of Botswana must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts. (3) Au thor ized dealers would be advised in due course of arrangements regarding the repatriation of South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes and pula notes. (4) U n t il further notice, a ll merchanting ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions involving Botswana had to be referred to the Reserve Bank. (5) The local borrowing powers of South African companies owned or controlled as to 25 per cent or more by residents of Botswana would continue to be restricted. (Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar N o. B.177.) September 7. Au thor ized dealers were informed of a communication from the Bank of Botswana to the effect that the latter, through Botswana authorized dealers, would exchange pula notes remitted by banks in South Africa without limitation (Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar No. B .178 ). September 15. W i th effect from October 4, the super­ vision over transfers abroad in respect of maintenance, gift, and study allowances was tightened. A new form, M .P. 245, was introduced for this purpose. The basic allowances which authorized dealers could grant for maintenance transfers and gifts (or personal loans) remained unchanged at R 100 per receiving family unit per month (to beneficiaries in necessitous circumstances only) and R 100 per beneficiary during a calendar year, respectively (Exchange Con t rol C i rcu lar N o. B .179 ). September 17. Add i t ional exemptions from the import deposit scheme came into effect. They were (1) certain goods for the welfare of the blind and deaf; (2) certain essential medical and veterinary supplies for state or state-aided institutions; and (3) goods in respect of which the Secretary for Commerce issued a certificate declaring that they were raw materials or partly pro­ cessed goods wh ich, after processing or further process­ ing, would be exported from the Republic of South Africa or the Territory of South-West A f r i c a, or that they were component parts for use in the manufacture of goods which would be so exported. S O U TH A F R I CA September 28. It was indicated to organized com­ merce that there would be no third-round allocation of import permits for 1976 in respect of general merchan­ dise, alcoholic beverages, clothing, and confectionery. The total 1976 allocation thus would be 70 per cent of the rand value of permits issued for 1975. October 26. Transkei became independent. F or exchange control purposes, it continued to be regarded as part of the Rand Monetary A rea. November 26. It was reiterated for clarification that authorized dealers could only allow a person to export one Krugerrand coin in a calendar year to a nonresident in lieu of a monetary gift (Exchange Con trol C i rcu lar N o. B .182 ). November 26. W i th effect from December 1, Sec­ tion B . 8 ( B ) ( i i i) of the exchange control rulings was amended to the effect that authorized dealers could allow their customers to transfer monetary gifts and loans within a limit of R 100 per applicant (previously, per beneficiary) during a calendar year to persons nor­ mally resident outside South A f r i ca or to South A f r ican residents temporarily overseas for the sole purpose of study. December 10. The import control policy for 1977 was announced. It would be maintained substantially along the lines which applied during 1976. Importers would be granted an advance permit allocation of 40 per cent of the total permits issued to them in 1976 in respect of consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages. This allocation was equivalent to the advance granted for 1976, and further issues for the commodities in question would be reviewed in May 1977. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta. Spain avails itself of wider margins. The official intervention limits for the U . S. dollar have been suspended since January 22, 1974. The official buying and selling rates of the Bank of Spain on Decem­ ber 30, 1976 were Ptas 68.188 and Ptas 68.388, respec­ tively, per US $ 1. Official buying and selling rates for specified curren­ cies 1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain acting in con­ sultation w i th the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U . S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes buying and selling rates for banknotes in specified foreign currencies on a weekly basis. Au thor ized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions related to commercial operations for up to 360 days; forward transactions with customers are restricted to currencies admitted to the M a d r id foreign exchange market and to permitted import and export transactions with a maturity up to 360 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and M e l i l la constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu­ lated by an interministerial commission. The M in is try of Commerce is in charge of all administrative functions connected with exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of the operative functions (basically, the handling of the external reserves). It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency loans to resi­ dents for nontrade purposes. Trade controls are administered by the M in is try of Commerce. The M in is t ry also is in charge of the con­ trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the regis­ tration of foreign investments in Spain. Contracts deal­ ing with technology must be registered with the M in is t ry of Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments 1 Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 4 10 agreement countries may be made in any specified cur­ rency ,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. Settle­ ments w i th bilateral payments agreement countries2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U .S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are six types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Payments in Spain (A Accounts), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accounts), External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, Bank Accounts in Pesetas w i th Ando r ra, and Emigrants' Accounts. A Accounts may freely be credited with (1) the countervalue in pesetas of convertible currencies sold on the Spanish foreign exchange market; (2) amounts transferred from other A Accounts; (3) amounts trans­ ferred from B Accounts; and (4) any interest payable on the account concerned. These accounts may freely be debited for (1) any payment in pesetas in favor of Spanish jur id ical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain (including payments relating to foreign investment in Spa in); and (2) trans­ fers to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign currency for remittance abroad are not per­ mitted. B Accounts may freely be credited with (1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under existing rules are transferable abroad under powers delegated to authorized banks; (2) amounts transferred from other B Accounts; and (3) any interest payable on the account concerned. The crediting of amounts originating from A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be freely debited for (1) the countervalue in pesetas of foreign currency acquired on the Spanish foreign exchange market; (2) any payments in pesetas in favor of Spanish juridical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain, including those relating to foreign investment in Spain; (3) transfers to other B Accounts; and (4) transfers to A Accounts. A ll other entries on A or B Accounts require the prior authorization of the M in is t ry of Commerce. Private banks are required to make special noninterest- bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of the increases after October 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in A and B Accounts (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or time deposits at less than three months' notice), and in an amount equivalent to 50 per cent of the increases in such deposits when held for three months or more (100 per cent of any increase after February 7, 1973). 2 Co lomb ia and Equator ial Gu inea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Furthermore, banks are prohibited from paying inter­ est on any nonresident-held peseta deposits in A or B Accounts, whether demand, time, or savings deposits. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold funds accruing in Spain to nonresidents that are not transferable abroad ("blocked pesetas"). Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts; if the recipient of pesetas does not hold an account of this type, he needs prior approval to open one. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas; (2) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired w i th pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owner;0' (3) with receipts from the Na t ional Lottery; (4) with any non­ transferable wages, salaries, pensions, rents, or dividends accruing to the account holder; (5) with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (6) with trans­ fers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (managers' per­ sonal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical person); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresi­ dent physical person) of urban and rural properties that do not represent investment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (applicable to rural properties only if the account holder is of Spanish nationality); (4) the purchase of Na t ional Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. A ll other entries on these accounts require prior authorization and the accounts may not be over­ drawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren­ cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, non­ resident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks: resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency in i t ia l ly deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to an A Account. Overdrafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. ;! The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. SPAIN Emigrants' Accounts—Since October 29, 1970, com­ mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards working abroad. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports are admitted under the following arrangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." A ll imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Po l icy and Imports. P ro­ vided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan .4 A ll other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.5 W i th certain excep­ tions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po land, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are issued freely. Imports of raw cotton, cer­ tain other agricultural products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and speci­ fied other essential commodities. Exchange in the appro­ priate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. A ll import transactions must be domiciled with an autho­ rized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 500,000 provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Some transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to individual authorization, for the pur- 4 The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries or to Afghanistan, A lban ia, And o r r a, Bhutan, People's Republic of Ch ina, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongo l ia, Nepa l, San M a r in o, T ibet, U . S . S .R ., and V iet N am. •" • There are separate global quotas for imports of the same commodi­ ties from E EC countries. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN pose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. F or a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are autho­ rized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. F or certain services, transfers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required which are granted at the discretion of the Government. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies and acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued inter­ est, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of sub­ scription rights; the securities must have been purchased w i th convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market, or with pesetas released from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restriction. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided the purchase price has been paid in full and the owner has no outstanding tax liabilities applicable to the property concerned. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; however, amounts in excess of this limit are approved freely for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. F or larger amounts, the banks must apply for approval, which may be granted. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain (Ptas 10,000 for persons going to A n d o r r a ). Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. A ll export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation in Spanish industries of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is exempt from authorization, while investment that exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the 412 Coun c il of Ministers; for participation in public service companies in general, the former ratio is 25 per cent. Special ratios and regulations apply for a number of specific activities.0 Foreign investment in Spanish com­ panies manufacturing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registra­ tion only; within 30 days the registration may be deemed an authorization if no notification to the contrary has been received. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, while investment in firms dealing with public information and in certain public services is subject to specific regulations. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the M ad r id exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Invest­ ment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. A ll contracts dealing with technology require prior registration with the M in is t ry of Industry. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted freely up to the percentages applicable to direct investment. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with con­ vertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the con­ version of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for further purchases of shares.7 Purchases by nonresidents of bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of either Span­ ish companies or the Spanish Government and its agen­ cies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this paragraph, and the full sales proceeds are transferable. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, within certain l im i t s ,8 freely permitted if financed with <! The foreign content of investment by Spanish companies with for­ eign participation (inversion de cascada) is determined in the follow­ ing manner: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; (2) if foreign partici­ pation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered foreign to the extent of such participation; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered as domestic. 7 However, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation proceeds abroad. s Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality are freely permitted by a general authorization as follows, if financed with funds imported from abroad: (1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwelling for per­ sonal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apartment building, and (3) up to three apartments in a single apartment build­ ing. There are separate regulations for the purchase of business premises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from bal­ ances in nonresident peseta accounts (A or B Accoun t s ). The M in is t ry of Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Cer­ tain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, rural properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the full sales proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas from an External Account in Convertible Pesetas, an A Account, or a B Account. If the initial purchase was financed with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferable. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, pro­ vided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. No formal authorization is required for such investments when undertaken by Spanish firms which have been granted an individual "export card" and have net assets in Spain of at least Ptas 100 m i l l ion, provided that the firm's total foreign investments do not exceed 40 per cent of its assets in Spain. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restric­ tions. Portfolio investments by all residents and pur­ chases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. However, registered investment funds with assets of at least Ptas 1 b i l l ion are permitted to place up to 10 per cent of their assets in foreign securi­ ties that are officially quoted on specified stock exchanges abroad. Approval of requests by nonbank resident firms to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the Ministry of Commerce; such authorization accompanies the export license. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credits granted directly to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions w i th Spain may, however, be authorized by the M in is t ry of Commerce. A l so, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, pro­ vided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Local bank credit extended at medium-term or long-term to Spanish firms with foreign participation in excess of 25 per cent is SPAIN subject to special directives, but domestic bank credit for up to 18 months may be granted, irrespective of the degree of foreign participation, on the same conditions as to wholly Spanish-owned firms. For transfers abroad of bona fide inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the Bank of Spain is allowed to import or export gold; industrial requirements are met by imports effected by the Bank of Spain. There is a global quota for imports of gold from member countries of the E E C. Changes during 1976 January 1. The global import quotas for 1976 came into force. January 19. The total or partial suspension of cus­ toms duties affecting certain petrochemical products was prolonged until Ma rch 31. January 19. Modifications were announced to the text of the Spanish customs tariff affecting a number of pharmaceutical products. January 19. The suspension of import duty on raw cocoa beans effective December 21, 1975 to M a r ch 20, 1976 was announced. January 19. Modifications were announced to the capital goods list of the Spanish customs tariff affecting some 65 tariff categories imported at a concessional rate of 5 per cent import duty. January 28. The founding of a new documentation and information center for foreign trade was announced by the M in is t ry of Commerce. February 9. The Bank of Spain's official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were adjusted from Ptas 59.85 and Ptas 59.92, respectively, per US$1 to Ptas 66.54 and Ptas 66.60, respectively, per U S $ 1. February 13. Dealings in Portuguese escudos, which had been suspended on September 29, 1975, were resumed by the Bank of Spain. February 17. A duty-free import quota for 1976 of 4.4 m i l l ion metric tons of coking coal was announced. February 21. It was announced that the importation of certain textile articles (some 30 tariff categories) no longer required an import license and could be imported by obtaining an import declaration issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Po l icy and Imports. March 18. A duty-free import quota was established for liquefied ammonia and the duty on methyl alcohol was suspended. March 24. Duty-free import quotas were announced for newsprint and chemical pulp for the manufacture of newsprint. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN April 28. The M in is t ry of Commerce established quotas for steel products free of import duties. April 28. It was announced that the total or partial exemption from duty affecting certain petrochemical products had been prolonged for another three-month period to June 30. April 28. Further modifications were announced to the capital goods list of the Spanish customs tariff, affecting some 40 tariff headings imported at a conces­ sional rate of 5 per cent import duty. April 30. It was announced that the suspension of import duties to be paid on imports of raw cocoa had been extended for three months to June 20. May 19. The bilateral payments agreement with Egypt expired. May 29. The O E CD Declaration of M ay 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and other Current Account Trans­ actions was renewed for one year. June 18. Royal Decree N o. 1350/1976 of the M in i s­ try of Industry was published which, inter alia, included a reduction of up to 95 per cent in the import duties and taxes to be paid on the importation of machinery and equipment needed by new companies for projects in the natural gas industry. June 25. The suspension of import duty on raw cocoa beans was extended to September 20. July 23. A resolution of the Directorate-General of Exports announced that a number of products could be exported within the context of global export licenses. July 30. Decree N o. 1816 of the M in is t ry of Com­ merce established duty-free quotas for the importation of pulp. Decree N o. 1817 of the M in is t ry of Commerce established a duty-free quota of 500,000 tons of coal for the production of electric power. August 3. Further modifications were announced to the capital goods list of the Spanish customs tariff affect­ ing some 50 customs tariff headings imported at a con­ cessional rate of 5 per cent of import duty. August 10. Royal Decree N o. 1996 provided for a restructuring of tariff rates of duty with a view to better coordination of these rates. The decree established sur­ charges and reductions of duty for numerous tariff head­ ings and subheadings. August 20. As part of a program to reduce the trade deficit, an export credit fund of Ptas 12 b i l l ion was set up to be used for credits to foreign countries buying Spanish goods. A l so, the price of gasoline was increased by 8 per cent and the luxury goods tax by 10 per cent. August 31. Decree N o. 2003 extended until August 31, 1977 the duty-free quotas for certain metallurgical products. October 8. Royal Decree-Law N o. 18/1976 provided for a combination of measures to deal with the eco­ nomic situation. Royal Decree N o. 2347 provided for a temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent on exist­ ing levels of import duty, with certain specified exemp­ tions, including most capital goods and certain food products. The surcharge w i ll be in effect for six months. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Sri Lanka Rupee. Since M ay 24, 1976 the official exchange rate for the Sri Lanka rupee has been maintained in terms of a weighted average of currencies. The inter­ vention currency is the pound sterling and the Central Bank of Cey lon fixes the buying and selling rates for the pound sterling from time to time in accordance with this policy. On December 31, 1976, the spot buying and selling rates were SL Rs 14.60875 and SL Rs 14.62375, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The official exchange rate is applicable to receipts from major exports and to pay­ ments for "A category" imports (rice, wheat flour, fertilizers, Western pharmaceuticals, and certain other imports classified as essential), a well as some invisibles. There is another effective rate which is maintained at a 65 per cent premium over the official rate and for which the spot buying and selling rates on Decem­ ber 31, 1976 were SL Rs 24.10444 and SL Rs 24.12919, respectively, per £ stg. 1. This arises from transac­ tions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of nontraditional exports (i.e., exports other than black tea, rubber, and major coconut products) and most other earners or recipients of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident travelers, when converting foreign exchange into Sri Lanka rupees at the official rate, may also receive either corresponding certificates or their cash value in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Sri Lanka rupees and are issued with a face value equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are not transferable and must be surrendered to authorized dealers within 30 days of the date of issue for encashment at a price of SL Rs 65 per SL Rs 100 in certificates. Add i t ional certificates are sold by commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank upon demand and at the same price; such certificates also are not transferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of for­ eign exchange required must be surrendered when pur­ chasing foreign exchange for payments in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The commercial banks deal in certificates for up to four months for­ ward with the option to extend a further two months at the discretion of the Ch ief Accountant of the Central Bank at SL Rs 66 selling, and SL Rs 64 buying, per SL Rs 100 certificate; transactions are permitted only when relating to anticipated genuine payments and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. The Central Bank deals in U . S. dollars, sterling, and Indian rupees only. Wh i le its spot rates for sterling are fixed, the Central Bank determines exchange parities for some 20 other foreign currencies, including the U . S. dollar, from time to time on the basis of London market rates for those currencies. Rates for other foreign cur­ rencies are determined by commercial banks, also on the basis of London market rates. On December 31, 1976 the Central Bank's spot buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were SL Rs 8.7160 and SL Rs 8.7185, respectively, per US $ 1. The Central Bank stands ready to provide forward cover to commercial banks (1) in U . S. dollars, sterling, and Indian rupees, buying and selling; and (2) under the Asian Clearing Un ion arrangements, in Bangladesh taka, Indian rupees, Iranian rials, Nepalese rupees, Pakistan rupees, and Asian monetary units, buying and selling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Con trol of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is drawn up annually by the M in i s­ try of Planning and Economic Affairs. This M in is try is responsible for the exchange allocations for government departments and public corporations. W i th in a block allocation to private sector importers, licenses for the industrial sector are issued by the Ac tual Users D iv is ion of the M in is t ry of Industries and Scientific Affairs. Otherwise, import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports. A ll remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the C o n­ troller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Con­ troller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements 1 and with Egypt must be made through the relevant special accounts. Pay­ ments in respect of trade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the As ian Clearing Un ion other than Pakistan (i.e., Bangladesh, India, Iran, and Nepa l) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their prod­ ucts) must be effected in As ian monetary units or in the currency of a member of the As ian Clearing U n i o n; for settlements with Pakistan, this is applicable to invisi­ bles only. 1 People's Republic of Ch ina, Syrian A r ab Republic, and U . S . S .R. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI L A N KA For settlements with all other countries (except Rho­ desia) the following applies. Payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency, i.e., any currency other than the Sri Lanka rupee. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the pay­ ment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.2 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency .2 Transactions involving deviations from the general procedures require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special procedures apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. The remittance abroad of balances in these accounts requires approval by the Controller of Exchange. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that have not been permitted to be transferred abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used in Sri Lanka for certain invest­ ments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the liquidation of such invest­ ments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. A l so retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Special Accounts may be maintained in Sri Lanka by nationals of Sri Lanka working abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad (inclusive of the value of the certificates to which the holder is entitled) but the accounts may be freely debited for payments within Sri Lanka. Balances in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax, and income arising from investments made out of such balances with the approval of the Controller of Exchange is exempt from income tax; the value of such investments is also exempt from wealth tax. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts of up to SL Rs 750, and books up to certain specified amounts for each con­ signment), all imports require individual licenses. 2 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen,. Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 416 A ll trade imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly com­ prise basic necessities, Western pharmaceuticals, fertil­ izers, books and periodicals, and two-wheeled tractors. The B category includes all remaining imports. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential items or goods similar to locally produced items are either not permitted or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government depart­ ments, government-sponsored corporations, and regis­ tered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain commodities for their own use, subject to special authorization. Imports of specified commodi­ ties ,0> are restricted to government or state corporations or the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment; these com­ modities are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of indus­ trial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. Public sector imports shipped or transshipped from places served by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation must be carried in vessels owned or chartered by the Corporation, whenever such ship­ ping space is available. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these for certain imports, including items otherwise not permitted, subject to approval by the Controller of Imports and Exports. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a Nonresident Account when the applicant furnishes or undertakes to furnish evidence of importation and the cost of the goods and produces a valid importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee pay­ ment; imports in the A category do not require the sur­ render of certificates. Import licenses for certain imports (primarily food products, industrial raw materials, and machinery) may be subject to a minimum deferred payment term. Letters of credit against such licenses may be opened provided that drafts are drawn payable either not earlier than 6 months after shipment or 12 months after shipment, in accordance with the terms of the import license. :! These include mainly rice, wheat flour (except corn flour), un­ refined sugar, refined sugar, "Ma ld ive fish," dried fish, cumin seed, masoor dhal, dried chilies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manufactures of textile materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require sur­ render of certificates corresponding to the full amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of certificates are (1) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad; (2) remittances abroad by nonnationals for family maintenance, up to certain limits; (3) provident fund contributions and life insur­ ance premiums which commenced prior to the introduc­ tion on May 6, 1968 of the certificate scheme; (4) pen­ sions and the final remittance, on retirement, of pension and provident funds, contributions to which commenced prior to M ay 6, 1968; (5) expenditures of foreign embassies, official international organizations, and for­ eign diplomatic personnel; and (6) other expenditures abroad specifically exempted from the certificate sur­ render requirement by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals resid­ ing temporarily in Sri Lanka is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on repatriation. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is granted only for emigration, the taking up of employment abroad, and furloughs of nonnationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 15 a day for persons of the rank of chairman or director of a firm or corporation ( SL Rs 150 a day for travel to the As ian G roup of Countries) 4 and of £ stg. 10 a day for other executives ( SL Rs 100 a day for the A s ian G roup of Countries) for a maximum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is allocated only for certain courses of study that w i ll be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Sri Lanka; allocations are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, acting on the personal recommendation of the Minister of Education. F or study in educational institutions in the As ian G r o u p ,4 exchange up to a maxi­ mum of SL Rs 250 a month for undergraduate studies or up to SL Rs 450 a month for postgraduate studies is allowed, as well as SL Rs 250 a year for books plus actual fees. For study in the United K ingdom, foreign exchange is made available at £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and at £ stg. 60 a month for post­ graduate studies, plus actual fees, and <£ stg. 25 a year for the cost of books. Fo l low ing the devaluation of the pound sterling in November 1967, students in countries whose currencies were not devalued were allowed supplementary remit­ tances to enable them to receive the same amount as 4 The A s ian Group is listed as Ad en, Afghanistan, the East A fr ican region, Brunei, Burma, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Ma lays ia, Pakistan, Persian Gu lf Sheikdoms, Sabah, Sarawak, Saudi Arab ia, Syrian A r ab Republic, Thailand, and Turkey. SRI L A N KA previously in the currency concerned. F or study in such countries (other than the United States and Canada), the maximum allowable is £ stg. 53 a month for under­ graduate studies and £ stg. 70 a month for postgraduate studies; the maximum for the United States and Canada is US$225 a month and US$240 a month for under­ graduate and postgraduate studies, respectively (in addi­ tion to an annual book allowance and actual fees). For travel (and other expenses) for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Sri Lanka and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treat­ ment cannot be obtained in Sri Lanka; the amount authorized w i ll depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of SL Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a wife, £ stg. 145 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 131 for a girl in a senior school, £ stg. 75 for a boy in a junior school, and £ stg. 90 for a girl in a junior school, up to a maxi­ mum of two thirds of the gross monthly income of the parent; any excess of the total of such remittances over one third of gross monthly income is treated as an antici­ patory transfer against the nonnational's entitlement to remit assets at the time of repatriation. For other depen­ dents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess w i ll be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles, subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Sri Lanka currency notes and coins. Resi­ dents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of SL Rs 50 a person ( S L R s 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted exchange for travel. Subject to the approval of the Controller of Exchange, residents may also export domestic currency notes of a value not exceeding SL Rs 50 a person ( SL Rs 25 for children under 12). 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI L A N KA Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all com­ mercial exports, and exports to countries with which Sri Lanka maintains bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. Furthermore, most exports require an export license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports; licenses for tea are issued by the Commissioner of Tea Exports and those for coconut products by the Coconut Market­ ing Board. Rubber exports to the People's Republic of Ch ina, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are under state trading. The State Gem Corporation has the exclusive right to export gems and jewelry. Private sector exports have to be made with the permission of and through the State Gem Corporation. The Corpora­ tion also handles exports in the names of gem miners who wish to export gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues a permit for a com­ mercial export when he is satisfied that payment repre­ senting fair value for the goods has been or w i ll be received in Sri Lanka by approved methods of payment and, usually, within six months from the date of ship­ ment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. There are special arrangements, however, for gems and nontraditional exports. Exporters may main­ tain accounts, designated Convertible Rupee Accounts, with authorized dealers in Sri Lanka. These may be credited with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. Sri Lanka rupee value (inclusive of certificates) of the net export pro­ ceeds of gems and craftsmanship of jewelry; with 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates where applicable) of nontraditional exports; and with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates) of net export proceeds of original and individual works of art. Debits to the accounts are permitted for imports, travel and study abroad, other payments which are not of a capital nature, and transfers to any other Convertible Rupee Accounts of the same holder. Exporters of all goods other than black tea in bulk and in packets, rubber (excluding sponge rubber), coco­ nut o i l, copra, desiccated coconut, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive certificates with a face value in Sri Lanka rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters who hold certifi­ cates are entitled to purchase foreign exchange to effect payments abroad which come within those categories for which exchange is released and require the surrender of certificates. Certificates have to be deposited or lodged with an authorized bank within 30 days of issue. The holders can use them for making foreign exchange payments within six months from the date of issue; at 418 the end of the six-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following headings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) pri­ vate transfers and donations; (5) small savings remitted to Sri Lanka by workers abroad; and (6) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by- case basis, by the Ch ief Accountant of the Central Bank. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange converted with authorized dealers; alterna­ tively, the latter may pay the traveler the cash value of the certificate in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange sold. Part of the Sri Lanka rupee equivalent of certain proceeds from invisibles may be credited to Convertible Rupee Accounts; this proportion is 5 per cent of gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings by individuals from the sale of their original and individual works of art to tourists in Sri Lanka and from the publication abroad of scien­ tific and literary works, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings from professional and consultancy services per­ formed abroad by individuals, and 5 per cent of the proceeds from such services performed by firms, com­ panies, etc. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his hold­ ings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Sri Lanka, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Sri Lanka notes in denomina­ tions of SL Rs 10 or less may be imported up to SL Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incorporated in Sri Lanka; capital transfers for direct investment in Sri Lanka are entitled to receive certificates upon conversion of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation; transfers require the surrender of certificates. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are considered and approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the M in is t ry of Planning and Economic Affairs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Emigrants are allowed to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a family for the cost of passage, freight, and other charges, subject to a limit of 25 per cent of the cost of passage and subject to reimbursement within three years; in most cases the purchase of the exchange is subject to surrender of cer­ tificates. They may also export their personal and household effects up to SL Rs 5,000, and their personal jewelry up to SL Rs 7,500. Emigrants over 60 years of age are also permitted remittances of pensions or other income accruing in Sri Lanka up to £ stg. 25 a month. Otherwise, emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship, nor generally, remittances of income (including pensions) accruing in Sri Lanka. However, certain remittances of income may be approved to persons over 55 who emigrated before June 26, 1973, and pension payments to persons pensioned by government bodies of Sri Lanka who emigrated before 1964 have been continued without interruption, irrespective of the beneficiary's age or income abroad. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets represent­ ing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. The transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires the surrender of certifi­ cates; exempt are (1) balances on provident and pension funds held abroad and representing contributions in respect of contractual obligations entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provident and pension funds held in rupees in Sri Lanka, and (3) the value of insurance policies held abroad and taken out before M ay 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. SRI L A N KA Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Central Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The Peo­ ple's Bank is the sole importer of gold; it has not imported any nonmonetary gold since July 1972. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. No credits to Convertible Rupee Accounts are allowed for the gold or silver content of commercial exports of jewelry. Changes during 1976 January J. Central Bank approval was no longer required for payment by residents of students' registra­ tion or examination fees for the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants, the Institute of Bookkeepers and Data Processing, and the Institute of Bankers, all located in the Un i ted K ingdom. Permission for pay­ ment could be granted by authorized dealers. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria expired. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic expired. April 8. The prescription of currency rules for import payments were revised. These could henceforth be made in any foreign currency except for imports from (1) the People's Republic of Ch ina, Egypt, Pakistan, the Syrian A rab Republic, and the U .S .S .R ., and (2) member countries of the As ian Clearing Un ion. May 24. The official pegging of the Sri Lanka rupee to the pound sterling was terminated. For the future the exchange rate for the Sri Lanka rupee was to be main­ tained in terms of an appropriately weighted basket of currencies. The intervention currency continued to be the pound sterling. The Central Bank would fix the buying and selling rates for the pound sterling from time to time in accordance with the new policy. The certifi­ cate market rate continued to be at a premium of 65 per cent over the official market rate. June 17. Under the Bangkok Agreement for tariff preferences negotiated in 1975 by the UN Economic and Social Commission for A s ia and the Pacific, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, India, and Ko rea implemented mutual preferential tariff cuts affecting some US$25 m i l l ion worth of annual trade. The preferences affected some 160 commodities including newsprint, railway track, turbine pumps, coconuts, tea, and coffee. The tariff cuts ranged between 25 per cent and 50 per cent. December 31. The credit agreement between the Cen­ tral Bank of Ceylon and the State Bank of Pakistan expired on June 30 and a second operation agreement for the year 1976, instituted on July 1, 1976, expired at the end of the year. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound. The Sudanese pound is defined by law as having a gold content of 2.115368 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is L Sd 1 = US$2.87156. F ixed official rates for transactions in U . S. dollars are quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank) whose rates for trans­ actions with authorized banks and the government on December 31, 1976 were US$2.867268 buying, and US$2.875877 selling, per L Sd 1. An effective exchange rate of L Sd 1 = US$2 .50 is applied to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87156 continues to apply, as a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U . S. dollar (i.e., 15 per cent) to the rate of LSd 1 = US$2 .87. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by author­ ized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the M in is try of Commerce and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sudan). Import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget that is drawn up by the M in is t ry of Finance and Na t ional Economy and approved by the Economic Counc il of the Cabinet. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries 1 are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncom­ mercial invisibles except those payable to j i g y p t2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convertible currency. 1 At the end of 1976 the Sudan had bilateral payments agreements with Egypt and India. The agreement with India, however, expired on December 31, and with effect from January 1, 1977 settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. - Payments to Egypt for gasoline and Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies. A ll other payments are settled through the bilateral account. 420 Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited with convertible cur­ rencies. Other foreign personnel working in the Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in the Sudan, may maintain resident current or savings accounts in Sudanese pounds. Blocked Accounts are maintained by former residents; earnings accruing to these accounts may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expen­ ses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, a ll debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca also are prohibited. Per­ mitted imports generally are licensed or accepted for registration in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Imports of certain consumer goods and commercial trucks are eligible for importa­ tion on a barter basis. Certain imports are permitted only when acceptable foreign financing is obtained. Sugar and wheat are imported by a state agency only. F or goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the M in is t ry of Finance and Na t ional Economy and validated (franked) by the Exchange Con t rol Department of the central bank. " N i l" licenses, wh ich also require franking, are issued for certain imports financed with foreign exchange held abroad by residents and by Sudanese expatriates or officials stationed abroad. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before validation, and a surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of a ll imports; capital goods, heavy trucks, tires and tubes, medicines, spare parts, raw materials for factories, and commodities imported either for government units or on behalf of government departments are exempt from advance deposits. Goods otherwise subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least L Sd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the author­ ized bank usually requires a cash margin of 10 per cent to 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. A stamp duty of L Sd 5 is levied on the application form for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution each remittance in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to a development tax of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Remittances are permitted for family main­ tenance (up to L Sd 360 a person a year), educational expenses (up to L Sd 1,200 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in the Un i ted States is exempt from this ce i l ing ), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of £ stg. 60 every other year for each adult traveling to Western Europe and the United States, and <£ stg. 40 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, however, are the equivalent of £ stg. 80 an adult, and £ stg. 30 a ch i ld, a year, and are also authorized by the commercial banks. Exchange for travel must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2 .50. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit foreign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2 .50 may at the same rate obtain foreign exchange equivalent to the full amount converted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. Sudanese Government officials (other than seconded staff) and students receiving educational allowances at the official rate are not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan, except Egyptian nationals, are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and d iv i­ dends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The remittance of income accruing from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) is prohibited, except for earnings from investments in government securities made before 1970. The exporta­ tion of Sudanese currency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually a ll payments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 5 on applica­ tions for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism, and from L Sd 1 to L Sd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remittances and those by diplomats are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. W i th the exception of cotton and gum arabic, a ll exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to an authorized bank. Except for hides and skins, authorized banks may approve S U D AN these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit or if payment takes place in advance; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. A ll com­ modities are subject to minimum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of pay­ ment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some major export com­ modities are exported solely by public sector entities. At the end of 1976, the export of some commodities (including durra) was prohibited for supply reasons, and the export of certain others was permitted only when the proceeds were to be received in convertible cur­ rencies. Certain minor exports may be sold on a barter basis or on consignment. Most exports are subject to a development tax of 3 per cent ad valorem. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad other than govern­ ment officials or students may remit foreign exchange in convertible currencies to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2 .50, and receive an incentive bonus of 100 per cent per annum which is paid on amounts so transferred to the Sudan and kept in a special account for at least six months;:] the full amount of the remittances so received may be repatriated at the end of the six-month period but in that case the bonus is forfeited and the remittance becomes subject to the prevailing exchange tax. Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Sudanese currency is forbidden. Capital Under the Development and Promotion of Industrial Investment A c t, 1972, wh ich superseded the Organiza­ tion and Promotion of Industrial Investment A c t' of 1967, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equiva­ lent of L Sd 1,500 to their new country. U p on emigra­ tion from the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain :? This bonus is payable only once, irrespective of the length of time by which the deposit period might exceed six months. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S U D AN conditions, residents may also purchase, ho ld, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes during 1976 January 6. The ban on exports of sorghum and millet was lifted. June 1. The development tax on imports and exports was increased from 2 per cent to 3 per cent. July 1. The incentive bonus for remittances by Sudanese nationals resident abroad was raised from 60 per cent to 100 per cent per annum. The full amount of such remittances could henceforth be repatriated at the end of the six-month deposit period, as against only 75 per cent previously. October 13. The ban on exports of meat and live­ stock was lifted. November 7. Effective during the period November 8 to November 25, 1976, Sudanese citizens 16 years or older going on a haj pilgrimage had to purchase travel exchange amounting to a minimum of Saudi Arabian riyals 1,200 in cash. Up to SRls 2,000 could be issued for travel by air and up to SRls 1,700 for travel by ship. Pilgrims had to obtain an exit visa and purchase a round-trip ticket prior to purchasing travel exchange. November 13. F or allocations of travel exchange for haj pilgrimages in excess of the maximum amounts mentioned under November 7 above, a special exchange rate of SRls 5 = LSd 1 was established, applicable until November 25. November 20. W i th in the exchange allocations of November 7, allocations in travelers checks were estab­ lished as follows: a minimum of US$340 or £ stg. 200 a person; for travel by air a maximum of US$564 or £ stg. 335, and for travel by sea a maximum of US$480 or £ stg. 285. December 11. The exchange subsidy was increased from 15 per cent to 20 per cent for export proceeds of the Sudan O il Seeds Company received between Novem­ ber 22, 1975 and November 21, 1976. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with India expired. Settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect from January 1, 1977. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUR INAM1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of Surinam is the Surinam Gu i lde r. The fixed official rates for the U . S. dollar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per U S $ 1. There are also fixed official buying and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U . S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies,2 are set daily by the Central Bank of Surinam on the basis of the market quotations for the U .S. dollar and those currencies in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar in Surinam, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Surinam. Administration of Control In principle, a ll foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non­ residents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the D irec tor of Econom ic Affairs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange D iv is ion of the M in i s t ry of Econom ic Affairs) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank of Surinam to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current payments without requir­ ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without requiring the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies 3 although payments to and from 1 Surinam is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 A ll currencies other than the Surinam guilder are considered foreign currencies. 3 Australian dollars, Austr ian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, East Car ib­ bean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tr in idad and Tobago dollars, and U . S. dollars. the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether­ lands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U . S. dollars w i th domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while a ll others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Au thor ized banks have also been granted a general license permitting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Nonresident guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited w i th Surinam banknotes mailed from abroad or with the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a ll imports.4 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from n o n -EEC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in E EC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered m i lk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furniture. The import of pro­ hibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of commodities are subject to quota, irrespective of or ig in; these include matches, pre­ fabricated wooden houses, certain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane furniture. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and furniture that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protec­ tive reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. A govern­ ment agency, the Surinam Central Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple foodstuffs. A ll other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, 4 However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Surinam, provided that they pay for their imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S U R I N AM within wh ich period the goods must be landed and paid for. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so for th); up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a month for the support of each member of the remitter's own family in the Netherlands An t i l les or the Netherlands, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 600-900 a month for a family unit (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the destination; 5 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (includ­ ing Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equiva­ lent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup­ ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com­ modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only after favorable advice of the Director of Agriculture, A n im al Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent com­ panies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without l im i t, and up to Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquida­ tion of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entre­ preneur for the company's use. Profits must be trans­ ferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm, and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on application for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. F or estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, further annual transfers are per­ mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Surinam accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released w i th in ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur­ chase or sell in specified countries 0 Surinamese cor­ porate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is con- 5 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South Amer ica except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 750 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. 6 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, Un ited K ingdom, and United States. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sidered that Surinamese interests w i ll benefit. A ll borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased over foreign currency sold, but the Central Bank permits them to place part of their l iqu id funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U . S. dollars corresponding to balances in nonresident U . S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Loca l ly produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sur. f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Sur. f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 9 4 (M o o o .7 Au thor ized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. A gold coin w i th a face value of Sur. f. 100 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Surinam for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home S U R I N AM or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses 8 issued by the Foreign Exchange Boa rd; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of E EC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of a ll forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1976 July 16. Surinam acceded to the Lome Convention. October 1. The Foreign Exchange Board's D e c i­ sion N o. 150 granted a general license to authorized banks and other institutions designated by the Board permitting them to sell to foreign diplomatic and con­ sular officers and staff and to foreign staff members of the Un i ted Nations foreign means of payment, checks, and drafts for travel purposes and other purposes related to their departure, provided in a ll cases that the persons concerned had been accredited or employed in Surinam, and provided in the case of diplomatic and consular officers and staff that the foreign country con­ cerned granted reciprocity to their Surinam equivalents. Decision N o. 145 of October 30, 1973 and Decision N o. 148 of August 9, 1974 were revoked. November 25. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of Sur. f. 100 was issued. Two silver coins also were issued. 7 These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U . S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1976 this had not yet been done. 8 Import and export licenses are not required since commodities are defined so as to exclude gold. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange and Trade System No par value has been established for the currency of Swaziland, the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), but a central rate of E 1.00 = R 1.00 has been established. On December 31, 1976, the Monetary Au thor i ty of Swaziland quoted a middle exchange rate for the U . S. dollar of US$1.1500 per E 1 and buying and selling rates are held within a range of VA of 1 per cent on either side of that middle rate although Swaziland avails itself of wider margins. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the U . S. dollar against emalangeni which is identical with the South A f r ican Reserve Bank's rate for the U . S. dollar against the rand, and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U .S. dollar. Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary A rea which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaziland. The Monetary Au thor i ty of Swaziland, on behalf of the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Planning, controls all external currency transactions; transactions with residents of Rhodesia, or involving Rhodesian currency, are pro­ hibited. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary A r e a, and in principle these are un­ controlled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary A rea, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South A f r i c a, although Swaziland's treatment of certain capital trans­ fers to countries outside the Rand Monetary A rea may be more liberal. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted, but applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Au tho r i ty to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrange­ ments. Holders of blocked emalangeni may purchase five-year nonresident bonds, the maturity proceeds of which are transferable, five years after purchase, to the currency area of which the holder is a resident. Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South A f r i c a, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South A f r ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods direct from countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Afr ica's import regulations. Import licenses are va l id for a ll countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are in the first instance shipped free of license to or through South A f r i c a. Changes during 1976 August 12. South A f r i ca ceased to regard residents of Lesotho and Swaziland as nonresidents for purposes of securities control. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish K r o n a. Sweden avails itself of wider margins. Margins of 2lA per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Swedish krona and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Norwegian krone; the Sveriges R iks- bank's official buying and selling rates for these curren­ cies correspond to a central rate of S Kr 5.55651 = SDR 1. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies. On December 30, 1976 the buying and sell­ ing rates of the authorized banks for the U . S. dollar were S Kr 4.113A and S Kr 4.13^4, respectively, per US $ 1. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresident foreign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). They may sell to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies spot against any other foreign cur­ rency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. The acquisition by foreign banks or banking firms of kronor on Regular Accounts is subject to limitation. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering cur­ rent payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services; (2) 24 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services; (3) 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports; and (4) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Forward exchange transactions covering payments under (1) and (2) above may be allowed for periods exceed­ ing 24 months if a purchase and a sale in the same cur­ rency correspond as regards amount and approximate value date. Authorized banks may under certain condi­ tions conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with foreign banks. Such transac­ tions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward trans­ actions with residents. Fo rwa rd market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange con­ trol regulations. A ll current payments (as defined in Sweden's exchange control legislation) are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agr icu l tural Marke t ing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other non­ resident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and K ronor Accounts for Nonresidents Dom ic i led in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans­ fers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The credit­ ing of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Regular Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents after emigrating. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for pay- Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Con t rol Bo a rd .1 The 1 The Exchange Control Board has 7 members, except when matters affecting direct investment abroad are to be dealt with, in which case it has 11 members. Some members (and their alternates) are appointed by the Government, and all other members (and their alternates) by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW E D EN merits in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise pur­ chases; taxes and other official charges; expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts2 are held in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with autho­ rized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe­ den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with­ drawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. W i th the exception of a few agricultural and fishery products and of specified types of footwear, practically all goods are free from quantita­ tive restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan and (2) A lban ia, B u l­ garia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Mongo l ia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and V iet N am. Most imports from countries in the second group are also liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports from the Republic of Ch ina of certain textiles are subject to specific licensing arrange­ ments. Imports from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, the Republic of Ko rea, Macao, Ma lays ia, M a l t a, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, and Thailand) of certain textile products are regulated through special arrangements. In addition, imports of certain footwear are subject to global quota restrictions. Imports from all sources of specified textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the condi- - Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and with interest and debited for authorized pay­ ments in foreign currencies. However, deposits made and interest accrued after June 18, 1974 must be credited to noninterest-bearing accounts. 428 tions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of per­ sons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the Riksbank is required. L ife insurance premiums in excess of S Kr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely in respect of both existing and new insurance policies. F or tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, resi­ dents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. The export by travelers of Swedish banknotes in denominations larger than S Kr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than S Kr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, and exports of specialty steel to the Un i ted States are subject to license. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat­ ment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes ( in denominations of SKr 100 or less) and coins and unlimited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted only if the investment is considered to promote exports or otherwise to be favorable from a balance of payments point of view. Au thor iza t ion may be conditional on foreign financing with an average maturity of at least five years. F inanc ing abroad is, however, as a rule not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which give rise to exports from Sweden, investments involving relatively small amounts, or invest­ ments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than S Kr 125,000 for each family, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of the lot, and the time allowed for building on it. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to S Kr 100,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigration), he w i ll normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. When Swedish residents emigrate to engage abroad in activities of limited dura­ tion, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Au thor ized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various cate­ gories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to S Kr 2,000 for each transfer. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity con­ tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing abroad for periods of at least five years to finance industrial investments in Sweden that are considered to be favorable from a balance of payments point of view is normally permitted. The Riksbank also permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. Borrowing by way of suppliers' SW E D EN credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice in the trade concerned. In this context, autho­ rized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions men­ tioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Residents are not normally per­ mitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad at long term for purposes of on-lending to residents who have received permission to borrow abroad. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are per­ mitted to borrow at long term from the parent com­ panies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the Riksbank; such authoriza­ tions are granted restrictively. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by non­ residents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market and the balance of payments were considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori­ zation, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (minor investments excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such invest­ ments, including appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. Nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes are to some extent exempt from the restrictions on foreign direct investments. In such cases a resident may, without authorization, both receive payment from and grant credit to a nonresident. Ex is t ing loans connected with the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Furthermore, banks are permitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to S Kr 25,000. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur­ chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents, requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies with the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW E D EN securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authorization buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denomi­ nated in foreign currencies from other residents. A general license permits the repurchase abroad of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either (1) that at no time during the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domi­ ciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The affidavit is not required when the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold­ ings of each authorized bank and the types of assets have been listed which the banks may hold within their foreign exchange limits. The ceilings for commercial banks have been fixed so as to enable them to carry out their foreign business. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange l iab i l i­ ties, but may not maintain a net liability in any one cur­ rency. Th is, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from non­ residents for on-lending (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresidents' holdings of kronor in Regular Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold G o ld in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). 430 Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scien­ tific purposes, as we ll as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collectors or collections. Changes during 1976 January 1. Imports from a ll sources of specified textiles and garments became subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. January 30. The Riksbank announced that it was no longer urging companies to raise funds abroad rather than at home, but that it was not restricting their bor­ rowing abroad. February 1. The agreement among the central banks of the No rd ic countries w i th respect to mutual short-term currency support was revised. The credit facilities were expanded substantially. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement. Accord­ ingly, Sweden ceased to observe maximum margins of 2lA per cent for the French franc. March 18. Imports of rubber boots from the Republic of Ch ina, the Republic of Ko rea, and Malaysia were included in the global quota established for this item in November 1975. April 13. A framework agreement between the Gov­ ernment and the Federation of Industries was announced. The larger industrial companies would in future inform the Government of their proposed investments at home or abroad. July 1. A system of state exchange rate guarantees for exports came into effect, which was to provide cover for losses in connection with exports settled in foreign cur­ rency. It was designed to complement the forward cover facilities of the commercial banks. The guarantees were applicable to credits with terms of more than two years and initially were available only in respect of the U .S. dollar. The scheme was administered by the Export Credit Guarantee Board. July 1. The prohibition was revoked on the purchase of certificates or shares issued by investment companies or investment funds, when switching Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies for listed foreign securities or listed Swedish securities denomi­ nated in foreign currencies. September 14. An export licensing system was intro­ duced for exports of specialty steel to the Un i ted States. October 18. The official buying and selling rates for the other currencies participating in the European com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mon margins arrangement, with the exception of the Norwegian krone, were changed. The Riksbank's new buying and selling rates for currencies participating in that arrangement corresponded to a central rate of SKr 5.55651 = S DR 1. The central rate previously com­ municated to the Fund was equivalent to S Kr 5.50094 = SDR 1. October. The ceiling on export credit guarantees was raised from S Kr 20.5 b i l l ion to S Kr 35 b i l l ion. December 13. Travelers were no longer permitted to export and import domestic banknotes in denominations exceeding S Kr 100. After February 28, 1977 the R iks­ bank and authorized banks would no longer repurchase such banknotes from abroad. December 30. Residents could, on application, trans­ fer capital abroad for the purchase of real estate for recreational purposes up to S Kr 125,000 for each family (previously S Kr 50 ,000), subject to certain l im i­ tations with respect to the cost of real estate on rented land. F or purchases of land for building, the allocation was raised from S Kr 20,000 to S Kr 50,000, provided that the house would be constructed w i th in two years and that the combined value of land and building did not exceed S Kr 125,000. Residents not emigrating but SW E D EN requiring real estate while working abroad could apply for transfers of capital up to the same limits. December 30. The l im it for outgoing payments that may be made without verification by authorized banks was raised to the equivalent of S Kr 1,000. December 30. A general license was issued in respect of nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes. In such cases, authorization was no longer required for the receipt of payments from nonresidents. A l s o, credit could be granted to some extent to nonresidents. December 30. The regulations concerning securities and payments connected with transactions in securities were eased. Where previously an affidavit was required, it was now sufficient if the securities were registered with the Securities Register Center. The former permanent date of the affidavit (the date after which it must be certified that the securities have not been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden) was replaced by a moving date; this moving date always was five calendar years back. The period within wh ich switches in Swedish securities must be completed was extended from two weeks to three months. A general license was issued for the repurchase of Swedish securities from abroad. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW ITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Counc il on M ay 9, 1971 is 4% io (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The "central rate" for the U . S. dollar fixed on December 20, 1971 was Sw F 3.84 = US $ 1. The gold parity of the Swiss franc has not been altered accordingly. On January 23, 1973, the Swiss Na t ional Bank suspended until further notice its intervention in the exchange market and no announced margins have since been maintained in the market for any currency, although intervention occurs from time to time. The market rate for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1976 was Sw F 2.4505 per US $ 1. A ll settlements may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory F or a ll purposes of import and export the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs terri­ tory for the duration of the treaty of M a r ch 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Pr inc ipa l i ty of L i e ch­ tenstein concerning the union of the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. F or purposes of capital control, natural or juridical persons (including banks) domiciled in the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein are generally considered by Switzerland as residents,2 except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. F or purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, however Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Counc il acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Pub l ic Economy or the Federal Po l i t ical Department. The Swiss Na t ional Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any cur­ rency. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. W i th minor excep­ tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agri­ cultural products and certain fuels. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss banknotes is free while that of foreign banknotes is restricted to the equivalent of Sw F 20,000 a person for each period of three months.3 Capital Transfers of capital may be made freely, with the exception mainly that bank credits and other bank lend­ ing to nonresidents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and w i th a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. This applies, inter alia, to foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds and to direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) in amounts of Sw F 3 m i l l ion or more must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank for examination. In addition, issues in Switzerland of foreign bonds (but not the issue of notes) denominated in Swiss francs are subject to a ceiling. A ll capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the Na t ional Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credit) must be converted into foreign currency at the Na t ional Bank. Issues by foreign issuers of debt instru­ ments expressed in Swiss francs and having a maturity of less than 12 months are discouraged. The same applies to foreign bond issues denominated in Swiss francs in amounts below Sw F 10 m i l l i o n .4 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 For details see the Federal Ordinance on the application of the Measures for the Protection of the Currency in respect of the Prin­ cipality of Liechtenstein. 3 This restriction was terminated with effect from May 1, 1977. 4 Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for the application of some regulations, namely, those based on the Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, which does not extend to banks in Liechtenstein. 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward capital transfers are restricted.5 Some of the relevant regulations make a distinction between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss nationality, the latter usually being exempt from prohibitions or approval requirements even when they have their per­ manent residence abroad. Na tural or jur id ical persons having their domicile or registered office in Liechtenstein are considered nonresidents for purposes of the acquisi­ tion of Swiss real estate. The definition of the terms ''foreigner" and "foreign funds" is not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Borrowing from nonresidents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident natural and jur id ical persons other than banks requires the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank, wh ich is not normally granted. The principal exemptions from this licensing require­ ment are for borrowing corresponding to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for credits up to Sw F 1 m i l l ion, if taken up in foreign currency, used entirely abroad, and not con­ verted into Swiss francs. In addition, approval is normally granted for borrowing from relatives abroad. Banks are subject to reserve requirements against the growth and the level of external liabilities (liabilities both in Swiss francs and in foreign currencies); the reserve requirements are different for, on the one hand, deposits made between July 31, 1971 and October 31, 1974, and on the other hand, deposits made after the latter date.0 Banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits (including "fiduciary" or "trustee" funds) received from nonresidents; however, savings accounts and similar accounts are subject to preferential treat­ ment. Banks must charge a commission ("negative interest") of 10 per cent a calendar quarter on a ll net increases after October 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss franc deposits, irrespective of maturity; increases up to Sw F 100,000 are exempt from this commission .7 The banks have agreed to inform the Swiss Na t ional Bank of spot and forward transactions exceeding US$5 million; they must report their foreign exchange turn­ over involving Swiss francs (except when the daily turnover is less than S w F 15 m i l l i o n ). They are required to at least balance daily their overall foreign exchange position, as well as their position in each currency separately, short positions in foreign currency being prohibited. Banks are required to report monthly their forward positions. Banks' forward sales of Swiss 5 In order to limit the international use of the Swiss franc, the National Bank on March 22, 1977 reinstated a measure which had been revoked in July 1974. It prohibited the participation by non­ resident natural or juridical persons in the extension of domestic credits denominated in Swiss francs to foreign borrowers. 6 The reserve requirements against banks' foreign liabilities were terminated on February 28, 1977. The funds released were about Sw F 200 million. 7 On April 1, 1977 this exemption was increased to Sw F 250,000 for each account for accounts held by foreign banks domiciled abroad. SW I T Z E R L A ND francs to nonresidents with a maturity of ten days or less are limited to 30 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level; for maturities over ten days the l im it is 40 per cent of that level. The Na t ional Bank is empowered to block in noninterest-bearing deposits, for an indefinite period of time, the Swiss franc counterpart of its spot purchases in the exchange market; these powers have not been invoked. Banks and finance companies must report monthly their "dealer positions" in foreign cur­ rencies (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward). Internationally active firms in Switzerland have agreed to report monthly to the Na t ional Bank their expected transfers of earnings and capital during the following month and may be required to report once a year their repatriation poten­ tial (i.e., their foreign currency placements with maturities of up to six months). Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Such per­ mission is also required for the acquisition of real estate by foreign natural persons who have been resident in Switzerland for less than five consecutive years, unless they have been granted a residence permit. The approvals of the cantons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zu r ich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; however, the import of gold known or suspected to come from Cambodia or V iet N am is prohibited. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (bars and coins are exempt). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1976 January 1. Under the free trade agreement with the E E C, import duties on most industrial goods of E EC origin were further reduced. January 1. A new system for the surveillance of import prices for certain textiles came into force (Fed­ eral Counc il Ordinance of December 8, 1975). January /. Fo l low ing the expiration on December 31, 1975 of the clearing arrangements with the German Democratic Republic, settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The ceiling on foreign bond issues in Swiss francs was set at Sw F 450 m i l l ion for the two- 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW I T Z E R L A ND month period January-February, unchanged from that for November-December 1975. January 5. A c t ing in agreement w i th the Federal Counc i l, the Na t ional Bank announced its liquidity targets for 1976. As in 1975, the target for the expan­ sion of the money supply ( Mx) was 6 per cent. January 28. Banks and those finance companies that are put on an equal footing with the banks became sub­ ject to reporting requirements regarding their "dealer positions" in foreign currency (assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, both spot and forward, for their own account). Reporting had to take place monthly. In addition, banks that were important participants in international arbitrage had to report weekly their "dealer positions" in individual currencies. January 31. Under a decree of October 28, 1975, banks were instructed to reduce further their forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents with a maturity in excess of ten days, from 70 per cent to 60 per cent of the amount outstanding on October 31, 1974. On June 8, this maximum was further cut to 40 per cent (with effect from July 31) and the corresponding maximum for contracts with a maturity of ten days or less was reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent (with immediate effect). February 12. The National Bank issued new regula­ tions governing private placements of notes denominated in Swiss francs on behalf of foreign borrowers. Banks managing such placements no longer were required to place at least 60 per cent of the notes with their regular customers. Foreign finance companies were henceforth prohibited from subscribing to private placements of notes. February 19. The Na t ional Bank and the Swiss banks extended for another six months their gentleman's agreement of A p r il 18, 1975 on the refinancing of export bills denominated in Swiss francs with maturities of up to six months, for consumer goods (mainly prod­ ucts of the clock and watch, textile, and footwear industries). The agreement was also renewed for six months in October 1976 and February 1977. March 1. The ceiling on foreign bond issues in Swiss francs was set at Sw F 450 m i l l ion for the two-month period M a r c h - A p r i l. March 11. The Parliament approved an amendment to the Na t ional Bank Law that would empower the Na t ional Bank to engage in forward exchange trans­ actions up to three months (see July 1, be low). April 1. A gentleman's agreement between the Na t ional Bank and internationally active firms in Switzerland came into effect, for a period of one year. The firms would report to the Na t ional Bank every month their expected transfers of earnings and capital during the next month. In addition, the Na t ional Bank could inquire once a year about their "repatriation potential" (foreign currency placements with maturities of up to six months). 434 April 21. A Federal Ordinance of A p r il 14 restricted the import of foreign banknotes to the equivalent of Sw F 20,000 a person for each period of three months. The Na t ional Bank was empowered to grant certain exemptions. May 1. A gentleman's agreement w i th the Swiss banks as well as travel agencies and money changers came into effect under which these undertook until the end of 1976 not to accept Italian banknotes in denomi­ nations of L it 50,000 or L it 100,000 or l i ra checks marked "payable only in Italy" (see November 29, be low ). May 1. The ceiling on foreign bond issues in Swiss francs was set at Sw F 450 m i l l ion for the two-month period M ay - Jun e. June 1. The Federal Law on Imports and Exports of Processed Ag r icu l tu ral Products (approved by referendum on December 7, 1975) came into force. It empowered the Confederation to levy surcharges on imports of such products. In addition, export subsidies could be granted. June 7. The amount of any increase since October 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss franc savings accounts and other savings deposits that was exempt from the prohibition on the payment of interest was reduced from S wF 50,000 to Sw F 20,000. (However, funds deposited in such accounts between October 31, 1974 and June 1, 1976 continued to bear interest on amounts up to S wF 50,000.) In addition, this exemption was henceforth limited, at each bank, to one member of a family. June 15. A gentleman's agreement between the Na t ional Bank and banks maintaining branches or sub­ sidiaries abroad came into effect for a period of one year. Such banks would instruct their affiliates abroad to refrain from obviously speculative transactions directed against the Swiss franc. The banks concerned furthermore undertook not to make deposits from Switzerland in Euro-Swiss francs or direct placements in Swiss francs for the account and in the name of these subsidiaries or branches. July 1. The emergency decree under which the Na t ional Bank had been authorized to engage in for­ ward exchange transactions became statutory law, the deadline for a referendum on the issue having expired on June 28. The authority was now embodied in A r t ic le 14, Section 3, of the Na t ional Bank Law. July 1. The ceiling on foreign bond issues in Swiss francs was set at Sw F 460 m i l l ion for the two-month period Ju ly -Augus t. Loans issued by international financial organizations concerned with development henceforth were exempt from the ceiling. July 2. W i th effect from July 26, reserve require­ ments against banks' liabilities to nonresidents were increased; this action would have sterilized about SwF 1 b i l l ion, but some Sw F 500 m i l l ion was released ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution immediately through the lowering (announced on July 23) of the deposit ratio. July 7. The Federal Counc il authorized the Finance and Customs Department to send to interested parties for their views the draft proposals for legislation requir­ ing professional exchange dealers to obtain a license for their business activities from the Na t ional Bank. August 23. The four leading banks ceased to require minimum interest rates for export credits and made available fixed-rate finance for insured export credits with maturities in excess of five years and up to ten years (previously, up to five years). F inanc ing for five-year to ten-year periods was henceforth available under three different credit programs. August 23. The Na t ional Bank extended from June 1, 1977 to June 1, 1979 the refinancing agreement for medium-term and long-term export credits and reduced the minimum amount eligible for refinancing from Sw F 30 m i l l ion to Sw F 10 m i l l ion. September 1. The ceiling on foreign Swiss franc bond issues on the Swiss capital market was set at Sw F 460 million for the two-month period September-October. September 3. The Na t ional Bank announced that on September 15 it would release the remaining supple­ mentary reserves against banks' foreign liabilities, raised in July. September 9. W i th effect from October 1, the National Bank instructed banks and those finance com­ panies that are put on an equal footing w i th the banks to report daily the volume of their foreign exchange transactions involving Swiss francs, including swaps, except when the daily turnover amounted to less than S wF 15 m i l l ion. Transactions in banknotes were excluded. The gentleman's agreement of M a r ch 20, 1975 on foreign exchange reporting requirements remained in effect. October 21. The Na t ional Bank announced that for a period of one year, starting on November 1, it was willing to conclude on favorable conditions forward exchange operations in U .S. dollars and deutsche mark, with an in i t ial maturity of three months, renewable for SW I T Z E R L A ND periods of up to three months, with firms in certain export industries that were undergoing rapid structural changes, such as the watch, textile, and clothing indus­ tries. November 1. The ceiling on foreign Swiss franc bond issues on the Swiss capital market was set at Sw F 460 m i l l ion for the two-month period Novembe r- December. (On January 5, 1977 a corresponding ceiling of S wF 500 m i l l ion for the first two months of 1977 was announced.) November 10. An Ordinance on the acquisition by nonresidents of real estate in tourist areas was issued. It came into force on January 1, 1977. The existing restrictions were eased, notably on the use of secondary residences as hotels. November 19. An agreement was reached between the Na t ional Bank and the U . S. Treasury and Federal Reserve System providing for the redemption over a three-year period of the U . S. authorities' Swiss franc liabilities. The U . S. authorities would acquire the neces­ sary Swiss francs from the Na t ional Bank rather than in the exchange market. November 26. Ac t ing in agreement with the Federal Counc i l, the National Bank set a 5 per cent target for the growth of money supply ( M ,) in 1977. November 29. The Na t ional Bank and the Swiss banks agreed to terminate with effect from November 30 their gentleman's agreement prohibiting banks from accepting Italian banknotes in denominations of L it 50,000 and L it 100,000. The Federal Order of A p r il 14 remained in effect that limited the import of foreign banknotes by travelers to the equivalent of Sw F 20,000 a person a quarter. December 5. A national referendum approved the renewal for two years, with effect from January 1, 1977, of the emergency decrees on price supervision and on monetary and credit policy. The latter empowered the authorities to impose reserve requirements on banks' liabilities, to limit the expansion of credit, and to subject fund raising in the domestic capital market to authoriza­ tion by the Na t ional Bank. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian A r ab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. In principle, there are two exchange rates, the official rate and the parallel rate, but since July 18, 1973 these have been unified. Since A p r il 24, 1976 the exchange rates for the U . S. dollar have been LS 3.90 buying, and LS 3.95 selling, per U S $ 1; exchange rates for other currencies are quoted on the basis of these rates for the U . S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in international centers. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of 2Ao of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. There is also a bazaar market. Administration of Control Po l icy with regard to imports and exports is deter­ mined by the Government through the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Adm in is tra­ tive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for co l­ lection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which the Syrian A rab Republic has bilateral payments agreements1 be obtained in the cur­ rency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" currency,2 or in any other con­ vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; 1 People's Republic of Ch ina, North Korea, Sri Lanka, U . S . S .R ., and V iet N am. a "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 436 these countries are Cyprus, Egypt, the G u lf states, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Saudi A r ab i a, Turkey, the Yemen A r ab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Proceeds from exports to Egypt may be obtained in "acceptable" banknotes. Prescrip­ tion of currency requirements are not applied to out­ going payments. A ll payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 8 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder (with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, also for prepayments) and for expenses in the Syrian A r ab Republic. Nonresidents and residents who have activities abroad may also keep accounts in foreign currencies in the Syrian A rab Republic, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital; trans­ fers abroad from these accounts are made freely. Tem­ porary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel rate and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rho­ desia, or South A f r i ca are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies (including the successor organizations to SIMEX) or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports are divided into two main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited L is t, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products, and some less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (2) all other goods. In principle, imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm conducting a busi­ ness established outside the Syrian A r ab Republic; the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. :i Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian A rab Republic for more than a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A ll permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders when valued at over LS 1,000. The state trading agencies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. (Exempt from import license, by virtue of Order N o. 338 of September 17, 1973, are certain commodities when imported by specified monopoly holders; these include coffee, tea, tobacco, sugar, salt, and rice, when imported by the T A F CO agency.) Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited L is t) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi A r ab ia are exempt from license, in accordance with the A rab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian A r ab Republic with some of these countries. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian A r ab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import licenses, which cannot exceed a value of LS 100,000 each (except for capital goods), the importer must provide evidence of his foreign exchange holdings abroad on Decem­ ber 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a docu­ mentary letter of credit is opened at the Commercial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the full amount with his foreign exchange. Licenses to import specified items that normally are prohibited (certain consumer goods, raw materials, and semifinished goods), up to a value of LS 25,000 4 for a 12-month period, are granted to merchants whose activity is certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the M in is t ry of Supply and Internal Trade. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are not prohibited are permitted without a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 500 or less (LS 10,000 a year for each importer for the public sector). There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro­ leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent; (2) a con­ sumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent; (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the tariff; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the tariff; (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most com­ modities can be imported only through Syrian harbors); * Reduced to LS 5,000 by Decree N o. 83 of February 2, 1977 of the Ministry of Economy and Fore ign Trade. S Y R I AN A R AB R E P U B L IC and (6) an ocean tax of 2Au of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made at the parallel rate by letters of credit, time drafts, or bills for collec­ tion, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tem­ porary resident account. Importers may transfer the foreign exchange until three months after the due date of the b i ll or draft; transfer at any later date requires the prior approval of the Exchange Office. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. The Commercial Bank of Syria then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. App roval by the Exchange Office is currently not required. Payments for Invisibles The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. A ll payments for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the parallel rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other A r ab countries (except A lger ia, the L ibyan A rab Republic, Mo rocco, the Sudan, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including A lge r ia, the L ibyan A rab Republic, Mo rocco, the Sudan, and Tun i s ia ), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. F or children between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. F or travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account con­ cerned (30 per cent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. F ixed allocations at the parallel rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian A rab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international mis­ sions in the Syrian A rab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresi­ dents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leav­ ing the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. F or additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S Y R I AN A R AB R E P U B L IC Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for govern­ ment agencies, state trading agencies, or specified com­ panies. Exports of a few goods to any country and a ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of a ll goods of foreign origin require licenses. F or all other exports, licenses are not required. F or most exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian A rab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be sur­ rendered to the Commercial Bank of Syria at the parallel rate, with the exception that the proceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the official rate; as noted above, the two rates have been unified since 1973. Certain manufactured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12!/2 per cent ad valorem. A ll exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those from other invisibles at the paral­ lel rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian A rab Repub­ lic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital A ll inward and outward capital transfers take place at the parallel rate. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private ind i­ viduals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Special facilities for investment of A rab capital in the Syrian A rab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree N o. 348 of Decem­ ber 29, 1969. Other facilities permitting residents and nonresidents of any nationality to open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian A r ab Republic with imported funds are based on Decree N o. 779 of A p r il 1, 1970 and Order N o. 191 of A p r il 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Order N o. 265 of June 10, 1970 regulates the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of A rab States in the economic development of the Syrian A rab Republic. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not without prior approval be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident A rab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian A r ab Republic without restriction. The domes­ tic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Exports of gold are subject to export licensing, while imports are exempt from import licensing. Import payments require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1976 January 1. Fo l low ing the expiration on December 31, 1975 of the bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria and the German Democratic Republic, settlements with these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. April 24. The unified exchange rate in effect since M a r ch 22, 1974 was changed from LS 3.65 buying and L S 3 . 70 selling to LS 3.90 buying and LS 3.95 selling, per US $ 1. May 31. The period within which the Commercial Bank of Syria was authorized to transfer abroad foreign exchange in payment of licensed imports was extended from one week to three months after the due date of the b i ll or draft; for transfers delayed beyond three months, the prior approval of the Exchange Office was required. July 19. Imports from the Federal Republic of Ger­ many and the Un i ted States ceased to be subject to special requirements in regard to price and quality. August 2. Import licenses ceased to be required for shipments of (1) permitted imports valued at up to LS 500; (2) otherwise prohibited goods valued at up to LS 250; (3) permitted gifts, samples, and printed pub­ licity materials valued at up to LS 1,000; and (4) other­ wise prohibited gifts, samples, and printed publicity materials, up to a value of LS 500. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Sh i l l ing. A central rate of T Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Tanzania avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Tanzania's rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U . S. d o l l a r - SDR rate. On December 31, 1976, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T Sh 8.27247 and T Sh 8.35561, re­ spectively, per US$ 1. The Bank of Tanzania deals w i th the Government and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except banknotes) against Tan­ zania shillings at par. Administration of Control The M in is ter for Finance has delegated the adminis­ tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the Na t ional Bank of C om­ merce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industries. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applica­ tions for commodities the importation of which is con­ fined to specified parastatal organizations must be sub­ mitted through the respective parastatal organization. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trad ing Co rpo ra t ion ). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non­ residents normally must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Certain proceeds must be received in specified currencies.1 Remittances to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. 1 The specified currencies are listed as Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwa iti dinars, L ibyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portugese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Sri L anka rupees, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U . S. dollars, and all other currencies of the former Sterling Area other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries w i th authorized banks in Tanzania are, w i th exchange control approval, designated nonresident accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspecified nonresident accounts. They may be credited w i th authorized payments to residents of foreign coun­ tries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian and South A f r ican currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania, and for authorized purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Imports originat­ ing in Kenya and Uganda are in principle unrestricted but some require specific licenses and others may only be imported by or on behalf of specified parastatal organizations. Certain goods listed in the Imports Con­ trol Notice, 1976 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. Most goods may nor­ mally be imported only by or on behalf of specified parastatal organizations. A ll imports to the mainland from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. A ll imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufactured goods when imported from and originating in Kenya. F or some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep­ tional circumstances only, exchange for import payments normally not being granted until after customs clearance. Most suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled. Au thor ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administra­ tively by the Bank of Tanzania. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T A N Z A N IA Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens work­ ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania even­ tually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33!/3 per cent of their monthly salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33V3 per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Cap i ta l, be low). The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Fam i ly remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travel­ ers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic cur­ rency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur­ rency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and exports of certain other prod­ ucts are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. A ll principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended in justi­ fiable cases. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in conver­ tible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Cap i tal transfers to all countries are subject to con­ trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years imme­ diately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may transfer their 440 assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. A ny assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in yearly install­ ments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount w i ll be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec­ tion) A c t, 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. A ll imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi­ dents from residents of Tanzanian securities on a recog­ nized East A f r ican stock exchange, provided that pay­ ment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. A ll loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tan­ zania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1976 May 1. The Open General License, 1976 (published in the Imports Con trol No t ice, 1976) came into force. The coverage of the three lists specifying the goods that d id not require a specific import license was reduced considerably. There were 15 lists of goods that could only be imported by or through parastatal entities; items added included petroleum and petroleum products, phar­ maceutical products, books, insecticides, and medical and surgical instruments. July 8. Remittances of dividends to nonresidents were resumed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THA ILAND (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0368331 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht, corresponding to B 20.00 = U S $ 1, and Thailand avails itself of wider margins. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U .S. dollars with commercial banks. On December 31, 1976, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U . S. dollars were B 20.375 buying, and B 20.425 selling, per US$1; on the same date, the authorized banks' rates for tele­ graphic transfers were B 20.35 buying, and B 20.45 selling, per US $ 1. The authorized banks' rates for other currencies are based on their buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar and the New Y o rk and London rates for such currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Tha i­ land on behalf of the M in is t ry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to autho­ rized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized com­ panies) and to authorized persons. A ll incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. A ll out­ going payments are subject to approval (given auto­ matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments); certain inward capital trans­ fers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by M in is ter ial Notification (no such notification has been issued). Imports of gold require a license issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the M in is try of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur­ rency to be used for settlements w i th foreign countries; payments are made largely in U . S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts; Trans­ ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, inter­ national organizations stationed in Tha i land, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Trans­ ferable Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include pro­ ceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and funds that cannot be identified as eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Tha i land; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. A ll imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods pro­ duced in Tha i land. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by autho­ rized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceed­ ing nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment1' from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; m i l i­ tary equipment imported by the M in is try of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import sur­ charges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Tha i land; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Tha i land. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educa- 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T H A I L A ND tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain limits. F or persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva­ lent of US$800, or US$80 a day for not more than 45 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi­ tional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for enter­ tainment expenses. The amount of foreign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for family remittances is US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the Un i ted States and US$150 a month for each trans­ feror for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists, however, may take out without prior authorization up to US$2,000 a person in foreign banknotes and coins, or such higher amount as they may have declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an ind i­ vidual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 A ll other com­ modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate is intended to assure repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be co l­ lected and must be sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight b i ll is drawn for co l­ lection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance b i l l, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments up to any value but require a certificate of exportation to take out any other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. 1 These include gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. 442 Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho­ rized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital A ll outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Tha i land approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move­ ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the pur­ pose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Tha i land can be accorded preferential treatment under No t ice N o. 227 of the Na t ional Executive Counc il (issued October 21, 1972); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain eco­ nomic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Tha i land approval. Such approval also is required for accepting foreign currency deposits, bor­ rowing foreign currency, or assuming any form of indebtedness in foreign currency. A ll other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The public sector requires the approval of the Na t ional Economic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Com­ mercial banks must report daily to the Exchange Equali­ zation Fund and to the Bank of Tha i land both their foreign exchange transactions and their foreign exchange positions. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. For gold bu l l ion, the M in is t ry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to ihe M in is t ry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1 .75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. After 1973, however, no license has been awarded for the importa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion of gold bu l l ion. Exports of gold bullion are pro­ hibited, while those of gold ornaments, when not effected by foreign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. Foreign tourists may without a certificate of exportation take out gold ornaments up to any value. Changes during 1976 January 24. Export control was imposed on cotton threads, artificial threads, and textiles and textile prod­ ucts made from cotton, bark, wood fibers, man-made fibers, or woo l. On the same day, all of these were exempted from the licensing requirement when exported to any country other than the Un i ted States (Commerce M in is try Notification N o. 3 5 ). February 6. The export licensing requirement for monosodium glutamate was lifted. February 13. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain polyester and nylon yarns and discontinuous polyester fibers. Initially, the surcharge was to apply until August 15, but it was extended to December 31. February 14. Commerce M in is t ry Notification N o. 27 (control of cotton export) and N o. 32 (permitting export of threads and artificial threads) were repealed as being in conflict with Notification N o. 35 of Janu­ ary 24. February 17. The December 1964 reduction of the import duty on silk yarn was revoked. February 25. Export licenses were required for the export of polyester filament yarn and polyester textured yarn or polyester stretched yarn to the Un i ted States. March 12. The import of unthreaded raw silk and silk threads was made subject to specific licensing. T H A I L A ND March 24. Export licenses were required for iron sheet. April 21. Export licenses were required for certain iron containers. July 30. The licensing requirement was lifted for the import of cinematographic films produced in or shipped from the People's Republic of Ch ina. August 6. U n t il June 30, 1977 a temporary import surcharge of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain induction motors and a surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value on porcelain insulators. August 11. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain fabrics and threads until December 31. August 16. Bank of Thailand's Notification to Au tho­ rized Agents N o. 28 increased the exchange allowance for travel abroad from an amount not exceeding US$630 or its equivalent (or US$40 a day or its equivalent for a period not exceeding 90 days) to an amount not exceeding US$800 or its equivalent at the market rates of exchange (or US$80 a day or its equivalent at the market rates of exchange for a period not exceeding 45 days). August 20. The A ct on Trade with State Trad ing Countries was repealed. September 15. The licensing requirement was lifted for the export of linseed o i l, including thinner. November 10. The export licensing requirement for cement was removed. November 24. Export licenses were required for cer­ tain categories of textiles and textile products when exported to Norway and Sweden. On December 25, this requirement was extended to cover exports to Norway and Sweden of all textiles and textile products made from cotton, synthetic fibers, or woo l. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA franc,1 which is officially main­ tained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02; the B C E AO levies a commission of Mo of 1 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i on and a commission of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to countries outside the U n i o n .2 Exchange rates for foreign cur­ rencies are based on the fixed rate for the F rench franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N iger, Senegal, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economy, wh ich also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of pay­ ments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to 1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Un i on are subject to the flat commission of C F AF 100 levied on settlements between offices of the B C E A O. 444 foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade D iv is ion in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of C FA banknotes, French bank­ notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with B C E AO banknotes mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of South A f r i c an origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade D iv i s ion in the M in is t ry of Com­ merce and Industry, when valued at C F AF 10,000 or more and destined for commercial purposes. Imports from a ll other countries require individual import licenses when valued at C F AF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost a ll requests for import licenses from a ll sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned m i lk, soap, salt, corrugated i ron, and iron rods. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a docu­ mentary credit is open or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay­ ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted by a general authorization. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a tr ip for any number of trips a year ( C F AF 87,500 for children under ten); any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered w i th in eight days of re-entry. F or business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, and work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, or up to C F AF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and non­ resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO bank­ notes, F rench banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the F rench F ranc A rea may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes but if going to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i on they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on T O GO entry 3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn up in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and a ll exports to South A f r i ca are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (O PAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other commodities. The due date for payments for exports to foreign countries cannot be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destina­ tion and the proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month after the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account country; authorized diamond purchasing offi­ ces, however, may retain such foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Togo. A ll export transactions relating to foreign coun­ tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Opera­ tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French F ranc A r e a. Resident travelers must w i th in eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks they bring in in excess of C F AF 5,000. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as de­ fined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. 3 Th is amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for C FA francs; and (2) for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Fore ign Account in Fore ign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to C F AF 175,000) with C FA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T O GO Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, and those other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. There also are special controls applicable to a ll countries other than Togo w i th respect to imports and exports of gold. A ll investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy .4 Foreign direct investments in Togo 5 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the M in is ter. Bo th the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign invest­ ments in Togo, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance and Economy and to the B C E AO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has previously been author­ ized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance works * Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 446 abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the out­ standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed C F AF 100 m i l l ion. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the M in is ter; exempt from this requirement are loans con­ stituting a direct investment, loans taken up by author­ ized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. A l so, certain enterprises, in accord­ ance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law N o. 65-10 of July 21, 1965, as amended by Ordinance N o. 2 of January 10, 1973) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agree­ ment by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least C F AF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to o ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1976 March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the C FA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. June 18. Decree N o. 76-99 lifted the prohibition on trade with Portugal. July 1. The West A f r ican C lear ing House formally started operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Tr in idad and Tobago Do l la r, and T r in idad and Tobago avails itself of wider margins. However, a fixed rela­ tionship with the U . S. dollar is maintained of TT$2 .40 = US $ 1. On December 31, 1976, the buying and sell­ ing rates for the U . S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of T r in idad and Tobago (inclusive of exchange charges) were TT$239 .700 and TT$242 .100, respectively, per US$100. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it stands ready to deal with the commercial banks in foreign cur­ rencies as well as the rates at which the commercial banks must buy from and sell to the public in these currencies in transactions not exceeding TT$100 ,000 .1 For transactions in excess of T T$ 100,000 the commer­ cial banks are required to quote rates to the public not less favorable than those fixed by the Central Bank for smaller transactions. Foreign exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25 ,000 and above and are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward trans­ fers; on December 31, 1976 the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks were Vi of 1 per cent on outward transfers and n il on inward transfers. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au thor­ ity (East Caribbean dollars) and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in T r in idad and Tobago, but under an arrangement with the monetary authorities concerned the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of payments for visible imports to the M in is t ry of Industry and C om­ merce and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce D iv i s ion of the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign c u r r e n c y2-5 and for control over 1 The currencies for which the Central Bank quotes daily rates are Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen. pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars, in addition to Barbados dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and East Caribbean dollars. - Under Tr in idad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all cur­ rencies other than the Tr in idad and Tobago dollar are considered for­ eign currencies. both current and capital transactions. A ll overseas pay­ ments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft fac i l i­ ties by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified cu r rency4 except Rhodesian currency. Au tho­ rized payments, including payments for imports, to a ll countries other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Payments from all countries other than Rho­ desia must be received in sterling or in any other speci­ fied currency except Rhodesian currency. Special regu­ lations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts; External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of T r in idad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of T r in idad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of T r in idad and Tobago; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of coun­ tries outside T r in idad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) to any country outside T r in idad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authori­ ties of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro­ ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in T r in idad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of •'* If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves frequent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian dollars, South A f r i can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO foreign securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeem­ able either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro­ hibited. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. F or import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) A lban ia, B u l­ garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia; and (2) all other countries except Rho­ desia and South A f r i c a. The import and customs regulations provide for pro­ hibition or stringent control, state trading, individual licensing, and open general license arrangements. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. F i re­ arms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Certain food products are covered by the A g r i­ cultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty (Schedule V I II of the A n n e x ). Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.5 (3) A ll commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an ind i­ vidual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. A ll imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted reasonably freely on a case-by-case basis for imports from these countries of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. For imports from these countries, a "negative" list is published covering all goods subject to individual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within CARICOM.) A ll other goods may be imported under 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan­ nels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 448 open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the M in is try of Industry and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry and with due regard to any obligatory restrictions arising from the requirements of international commodity agree­ ments or other factors. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no dis­ crimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, with the exception that CARICOM commitments are taken into account. Import licenses, where required, must be obtained before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen­ tary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are con­ cerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for for­ eign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisi­ bles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted pro­ vided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is T T$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allow­ ance (TT$1 ,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresi­ dents visiting T r in idad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Exports of certain listed goods usually require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in T r in idad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued, at the discretion of the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce, in response to applications. General licenses have been issued, for example, to permit petroleum com­ panies and sugar companies to export without specific ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in T r in idad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in T r in idad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in T r in idad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi­ dents and nonresidents. Capital Cap i tal transfers from T r in idad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay­ ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigra­ tion allowances are approved up to specified limits; fur­ thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Cer­ tain international institutions may be permitted, on a case-by-case basis, to borrow in T r in idad and Tobago. F or transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi­ tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securi­ ties expressed in T r in idad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is per­ mitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest­ ments owned by nonresidents of T r in idad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a B locked Account (see section on N o n­ resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in T r in idad and Tobago after January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per­ sons resident outside T r in idad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro­ vided that the full proceeds of sale are received in for­ eign currency or sterling. Foreign exchange is not T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside T r in idad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an autho­ rized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authori­ ties, be invested outside Tr in idad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Tr in idad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros­ pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in T r in idad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it w i ll be either a net earner or a net saver of any cur­ rency other than the T r in idad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment) or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justi­ fied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incen­ tive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. This provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer indus­ tries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in T r in idad and Tobago or which are not being con­ ducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for future development. Every pioneer manufacturer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of T r in idad and Tobago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways; in foreign currency (including sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (1) The right w i ll not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital invest­ ment project. (2) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO made through a local branch, the right w i ll be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such compa­ nies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of T r in idad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold G o ld is defined by the Exchange Con trol A c t, 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an autho­ rized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be sur­ rendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Tr in idad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in T r in idad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Con trol on the import and export of gold is adminis­ tered by the M in is try of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958 (as amended). Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Industry and Com­ merce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential duty) or 15 per cent (general du ty ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential duty) or 25 per cent (general du ty ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1976 January 1. Commonwealth tariff preferences were abolished and a new single tariff schedule was adopted. To a large extent the new tariff adopted the old non- preferential rate. May 28. The fixed relationship of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar to sterling of TT$4 .80 = <£ stg. 1 was discontinued and the T r in idad and Tobago dollar was pegged to the U . S. dollar. The new exchange rate was TT$2 .40 = US $ 1. June 18. The Exported Sugar Levy A c t, 1976, reim- posed a tax on the proceeds from the sale of sugar dur­ ing 1975. The percentage level of the tax varied depending on the price of the sale. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian D ina r, and Tunisia avails itself of wider margins. However, since January 23, 1974 the Central Bank of Tun is ia has established daily buying and sell­ ing rates for foreign currencies in light of quotations abroad. The Central Bank quotes 19 foreign curren­ cies.1 The buying and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. On December 31, 1976 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for U .S. dollars were D 0.4288 and D 0.4334, respectively, per U S $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Directorate of External Econom ic Relations of the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy which, in collaboration with the Central Bank, establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank 1 or in convertible Tunisian dinars through the Foreign Accounts of residents of those countries. Settle­ ments between Tunisia and Mo rocco, and certain set­ tlements between Tun is ia and A lge r ia, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. There is an inoperative payments arrangement for trade in specified commodities between O C ET and the State Trading Corporation of India. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of nonresi­ dent foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad, and with authorization in the names of Tunisian nonresi­ dents. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents to the holders of the accounts, with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than banknotes), with interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, L ibyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, No r­ wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. In addition, the Cen­ tral Bank quotes banknote rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan d irham ). as well as for C FA francs, Kuwaiti dinars, Luxembourg francs, M a li francs, Qatar riyals, and U . A . E. dirhams. rates applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and w i th transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credits require prior authorization. They may be debited freely for payments of any k ind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the payer), for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency from the Central Bank (which foreign currency may either be transferred abroad or delivered in Tunisia to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary). Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents without authoriza­ tion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi­ dent, with foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank to the debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, with authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, and with the proceeds from the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of resi­ dents of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their non­ resident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange or of the contractual or advance redemption of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in Tunisian companies, and the acquisition of real estate. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited freely for l iv ing expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 50 a person a week, subject to a l im it of D 1,000 for each family a year. They may also be debited for all taxes and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. They may not be overdrawn. Balances held by natural per­ sons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on M ay 31, 1975 may be transferred abroad. Moreover, between Septem- 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUN IS IA ber 1976 and December 31 ,1976 balances as of M ay 31, 1975 could be used up to D 10,000 to purchase five- year government bonds, and any balances in excess of D 10,000 to purchase seven-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds on maturity are trans­ ferable abroad through authorized banks. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents (comptes INR) are intended mainly for natural persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tun is ia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts (comptes INRE) may be credited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises covered by Law N o. 72-38, which provides for certain export incentives. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of credit­ ing all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents that are awaiting either their utilization in Tunisia for speci­ fied purposes or the approval of the Central Bank for their transfer abroad or their transfer to other nonresi­ dent accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may oe debited without the prior authoriza­ tion of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tun is ia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his family up to D 50 a person a week and not exceeding D 1,000 a year for any one family. Balances held by natural per­ sons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on M ay 31, 1975 are transferable abroad; in addition, those balances existing on M ay 31, 1975 which were eligible for transfer to a Cap i tal Account could in 1976 be used to subscribe to certain government bonds (see Cap i tal Accounts, above). A ll other debits to these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main­ tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian natural or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency transferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited, and the following does not apply to these countries. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, wh ich may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods from the 452 French Franc A rea require an import authorization from the Directorate of External Econom ic Relations and a payments authorization (on form X 2) from the Central Bank. Imports of nonliberalized goods from other countries require an import license from the Directorate of External Economic Relations and the visa of the Central Bank; in issuing the license, the Direc­ torate obtains the opinion (avis technique) of the com­ petent ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country under special procedures, as follows. Certain spare parts and a few other products required for industrial activities may be imported free of license against the presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer, and imports required by manufacturers for their own use or by certain official agencies are licensed under annual import authorizations. Moreover, manu­ facturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law N o. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, and playing cards. In addition, certain government agencies, of which one of the main ones is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, cereals, tobacco, etc .). Imports by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements applicable to private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza­ tion, or an import license, importers must have received a customs code number. A ll import documents involv­ ing payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a num­ ber of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu­ mented. These include various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, brokerage, and charges and profits related to transit operations) and payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising from authorized con­ tractual obligations to nonresidents. App roval is also given for remittances of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on E F AC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use E F AC balances freely for publicity expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Na tural persons and enterprises produc­ ing for export within the framework of Law N o. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their production process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law N o. 72-38 may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allo­ cation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children under ten); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated, with effect from January 1, 1977. The allocation for study abroad is D 90 a month. Export­ ers and hotel owners holding E F AC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. Foreign nationals employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of their net wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of D-150 a month if their family lives in Tun i s i a .2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits laid down in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the recon­ version of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100, where the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Non l ibe ra l- ized exports require an export authorization when sold to the French Franc A rea and an export license when sold outside that A rea. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V i n, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive o il that of the Office Na t ional de l 'Hu i le. Phosphates are exported by the Office du Commerce Exterieur Tunisien. W i th the exceptions noted below, a ll export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days after ship- 2 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Law N o. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. TUN IS IA ment if the goods are sold on credit. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special E F AC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Resident manufacturing industries that produce exclusively for export and are covered by Law N o. 72-38 may have credited to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible cur­ rency export proceeds. Under the provisions of Law N o. 72-38 of A p r il 27, 1972, nonresident manufacturing enterprises (i.e., enter­ prises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of convertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc A rea, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc A r e a. However, there are certain E F AC facilities (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declara­ tion upon entry. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital A ll nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to transfer the principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law N o. 69-35 of June 26, 1969) and by Law N o. 74-74 of August 3, 1974. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. Furthermore, Law N o. 72-38 of A p r il 27, 1972 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises, including an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law N o. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tun is ia, subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign financial and banking institutions doing business exclu­ sively with nonresidents. Such institutions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUN IS IA not repatriate any of their funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment and working capital requirements of their enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1 9 7 0 ;3 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between Decem­ ber 31, 1973 and December 31, 1974; and D 10,000 for those who left after December 31, 1974. A ll capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Gifts or the proceeds from inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval from nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold F ive commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. By virtue of Law N o. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold, i.e., gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars. A ny other imports of gold require joint authorization by both the Central Bank and the M in is try of Na t ional Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1976 January 13. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 76 /02 was issued regarding transfers of funds by persons leaving Tunisia permanently. January 13. The import of certain edible oils (ground­ nut o i l, soy o i l, and sunflower seed o i l) was prohibited in principle. January 13. Central Bank C ircu lar N o. 76 /02 increased to D 10,000 the maximum amount that resi­ dent foreign nationals could transfer abroad upon final departure. January 21. Law N o. 76-18 revising and codifying the legislation regarding foreign exchange and foreign trade introduced a code governing the entire foreign exchange and trade system (Code des Changes et du Commerce Exterieur). The Code revoked a number of decrees and laws from the period between 1939 and 1959, but provided that their implementing legislation would remain in force until such time as the competent authorities took decisions to the contrary. Apart from consolidating numerous foreign exchange regulations, the Code eliminated the last remnants of differential treat- 3 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 assets does not exceed D 3,500. if the total amount of their 454 ment between the French Franc A rea and the rest of the wor ld. Among the revoked legislation was Law N o. 59-145 of November 5, 1959 regarding capital transfers between Tunisia and the French Franc Area. New definitions were provided of foreign countries, for­ eign currency, residents, and nonresidents. Regarding foreign trade, the Code only stated that the Minister of Na t ional Economy could prohibit or restrict imports and exports under conditions to be fixed by decree. January 27. The quotas for imports from France dur­ ing 1976 were published. A revised list was published on February 10. February 14. Decree N o. 76-114 regulated casino gambling by nonresidents. February 17. C i rcu lar N o. 76 /15 was issued regard­ ing monthly exchange allocations for study abroad. February 24. Decree N o. 76-141 confirmed the exist­ ing prohibition on the importation and exportation, in any manner, of domestic banknotes. March 17. A trade agreement with a most-favored- nation clause was signed with India. It revoked and replaced the trade agreement of October 5, 1960. Set­ tlements in respect of trade covered by the new agree­ ment would take place in convertible currencies. April 6. The global import quotas for 1976 were published. April 15. An economic and technical cooperation agreement was signed with the U .S .S .R. April 25. A cooperation agreement and an interim agreement were signed with the E E C. May 12. U n t il December 31, 1976 nonresidents holding balances on Cap i tal Accounts could use such balances up to D 10,000 to purchase five-year govern­ ment bonds and any balances in excess of D 10,000 to purchase seven-year government bonds. The interest rate on both types of bonds was 3 per cent. Interest and redemption proceeds on maturity were transferable abroad through authorized banks. Implementing regu­ lations were issued by the M in is t ry of Finance in an order of June 17. July 12. Law N o. 76-63 permitted the establishment of foreign banks and financial institutions in Tunisia, provided their customers would essentially be non­ residents (including foreign investors availing them­ selves of the benefits of Law N o. 72-38). July 30. C i rcu lar N o. 76 /69 was issued regarding the subscription by holders of Cap i tal Accounts to the gov­ ernment loan authorized by Law N o. 76-52 of May 12. August 10. C i rcu lar N o. 76 /33 of M ay 6 to autho­ rized banks was published. It clarified certain regula­ tions and procedures for the implementation of Law N o. 72-38 of A p r il 27, 1972. It also provided under certain circumstances for the granting of guarantees by authorized banks and for their opening Blocked Guaran­ tee Accounts in convertible dinars or in convertible for­ eign currencies. August 12. Decree N o. 76-698 imposed, with retro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution active effect from July 1, a special tax on exports of olive o il to member countries of the E E C. October 27. C i rcu lar N o. 76 /88 was issued dealing with the exchange allocation for pilgrimages. December 3. C ircu lar N o. 76 /96 was issued dealing with the exchange allocation for tourist travel. December 28. Decree N o. 76-1120 imposed a com- pensatory tax on exports of olive o i l. TUN IS IA 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Turk ish L i r a. A central rate of LT 14 = US$1 has been established, and Turkey avails itself of wider mar­ gins. Since July 8, 1975, however, Turkey has not maintained prescribed margins around the central rate. On December 31, 1976 the official rates for the U . S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 16.50 buying, and LT 16.83 selling, per US $ 1. The Central Bank also establishes from time to time official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies.1 Pending the enactment of legislation to eliminate inter­ est payments on remittances by Turk ish workers resident abroad, Turkey maintains a separate nominal rate for these. Workers' remittances are converted at a buying rate of LT 13.1253 per U S $ 1; when the Turk ish l i ra equivalent is credited to an account with a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 3 3 p er cent of the amount converted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the M i n­ istry of Commerce, which is also in charge of the prepa­ ration of import programs. The M in is try of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the M in is t ry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require prior approval of the competent ministry, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the M in is t ry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional orga­ nizations (the Exporters U n i o n, the Chambers of Com­ merce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the M in is t ry of C om­ merce; export licenses are issued by this M in is t ry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through spe- 1 Including Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 A lban ia and U . S . S .R. The agreement with A lban ia is inoperative. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. 456 cial accounts denominated in U . S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies; proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe 3 must be received in the currency of any coun­ try in this group. Nonresidents (including Turkish workers abroad) are permitted to open demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Tu rk ish liras bearing an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank. In addition, Tu rk ish citizens working abroad may open foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank of Turkey denominated in any convertible currency through the intermediation of the Dresdner Bank in the Federal Republic of Germany. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forbidden, except with the authorization of the M in is t ry of Commerce. A ll com­ mercial imports require import licenses, which are va l id for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within six months. In exceptional cases, the period of use of import licenses is extended by six months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchants), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for com­ mercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when granting such certificates. Exporters, mine operators, shipowners, building contractors who have undertaken the construction of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manufacturers are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters U n i o n, or the M in is t ry of Tour­ ism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro­ visions of import programs which are planned for one year.4 The import programs classify imports in two 3 Austr ia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 4 The 1977 import program was published in January 1977. Total imports in 1977 were projected to be US$5.8 b i l l ion, compared with US$5 billion for 1976. Th is total included US$3.2 b i l l ion for liberal­ ized goods, US$1.6 b i l l ion for quota goods, and US$90 million for imports from bilateral payments agreement countries. In addition, US$910 million was projected for self-financing imports outside the import program. Compared with the previous import program, certain procedural changes were introduced in 1977; the deposit requirement for agricultural tractors was reduced to 1 per cent but other deposit requirements remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution categories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, con­ sisting of two parts (lists I and I I ). There are no limits as to either value or quantity of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government department is required; (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas published annually. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, how­ ever, may be imported when specifically authorized by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements; 5 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. Certain imports from member countries of the E EC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the E EC 6 and are free of quantitative restriction; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to autho­ rized banks, wh ich transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. F or certain liberal­ ized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. There are special arrangements administered by the M in is t ry of Commerce to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplementary materials required for export production. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis­ tered importers and for industrialists. Quotas for indus­ trialists are allocated annually and those for private commercial importers three times a year. Imports on the quota list are subdivided into two broad categories— imports which do not, and imports which do, require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for a ll quota imports within the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the M in i s t ry of Commerce (on the advice of the responsible au thor i ty). Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manufac­ tured by local industry and do not exist in the local market in sufficient quantity and quality; the issuance of the required certificate is the responsibility of the M in i s t ry of Industry and Technology. Registered importers have to submit their applications for goods not requiring a permit through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the M in i s t ry of Commerce during the first two months of each semester. U p on 5 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quota lists from nonpayments-agreement, n o n - O E CD countries, the Ministry of Commerce takes the balance of trade and payments with these coun­ tries into account. 6 The E EC consolidated liberalization list was not republished in the 1977 import program. T U R K EY examination of applications, the M in is t ry of Commerce issues a foreign exchange allocation letter va l id for four months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank within the period of validity of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Applications for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the M in is t ry of C om­ merce in A p r il of each year. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body each semester by importers and each year by industrialists. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank during the period of validity of the exchange allocation. Under a system of pre-import price control, wh ich has been suspended but not abolished, imports are to be made at the best ruling wor ld market prices. F or this purpose, whenever the system is reinstated, a certificate must be obtained from the Office of Price Registration and Con trol after issuance of the import license or the certificate of foreign exchange allocation. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). Irrespective of the method of payment, registered importers and indus­ trialists are required to prepay in local currency, when submitting an application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are transferred to the Central Bank by the authorized bank within five days. If prepay­ ments are not made within five days, penalty payments equivalent to a certain ratio of the total value of imports are required, as follows: 5 per cent, if prepayments are made within the following five days, and an additional 1 per cent a day up to a maximum period of 60 days, with a maximum rate of 50 per cent. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and within two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. These are established only for com­ modities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the M in i s t ry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 20 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable, and for items on list II, 10 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY application is payable for goods on importers' quotas, and 2.5 per cent for industrialists' quotas and export manufacturers.7 F or imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonpayments agreement country, but a rate of 10 per cent is applied to quotas which are not included in industrialists' quotas to be fixed by the M in is t ry of Commerce for agreement countries and all of the quotas indicated in the listed import quotas for which no control authority exists. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, how­ ever, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to con­ vertible currency countries only) or 10 per cent (on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agree­ ments). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign sup­ plier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in con­ formity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corresponding to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the M in is try of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen­ tral Bank, or the M in is t ry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery with a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of LT 3,000, in addition to personal effects. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instruments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and condi­ tions vary with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machin­ ery for their personal or family use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin­ ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request­ ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the 7 F or fertilizers, ammonia, breeding animals, and certain products on liberalized list II and the global quotas, the rate is 1 per cent. For materials used for shipbuilding, repair and modification carried out within the country, and for the construction of shipyards, the rate is 0.1 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 25,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 50,000. 458 goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign com­ panies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. A ll such imports require the permission of the exchange control authori­ ties. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Imports of automobiles,8 tractors, or professional machinery, etc., without payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish resi­ dents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Tu rk ish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Tu rk ish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the M in is t ry of Finance may also per­ mit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. W i th these exceptions, auto­ mobiles and any other commodities that have been imported duty free may not be sold to residents. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are sub­ ject to the following charges; (1) a customs surcharge (municipal tax) of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 9 per cent or 9.5 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of com­ modity; 0 (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and cus­ toms clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging generally from 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu­ ments; payments related to trade (including shipping 8 Automobiles are not included in the import program. (> The stamp duty is 100 per cent for imports made by special per­ mission but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adm in is tra t ion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' pay­ ments, specified technical assistance, repair and assem­ bly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricul­ tural nature) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Tu rk ish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to three trips a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel (except for persons traveling on a collective passport) is the equivalent of US$600 a calendar year; travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying at least the equivalent of US$200 in foreign exchange (US$100 for persons under 18 years of age and the purchase of this amount is not mandatory). Tu rk ish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to less than US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance to other countries. Exchange for business travel is granted up to an annual maximum limit of US$5 ,000, individual limits being determined in accordance with the taxable income of the applicant firm; for businessmen in exporting businesses the l im it is related to the export proceeds of their firms. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treat­ ment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Tu rk ish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange wh ich they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Tu rk ish liras into for­ eign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. T U R K EY listed in the appendix of the export p rog ram ,10 re-exports irrespective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. C om­ mercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by the M in is t ry of Commerce on the basis of prices obtaining in domestic and foreign markets. Exports of goods subject neither to registration nor to license may be effected freely. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on wh ich the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export a specified list of commodities on 12-month credit terms, however, against payment in convertible currency and subject to a bank guarantee. Forward sales may be made only when payment is to be received in convertible curren­ cies; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or products are expor ted .11 The rates of rebate range from 5 per cent to 45 per cent of export value. Other tax refunds apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral pay­ ments agreement countries. Other tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings from income and cor­ poration taxes and the exemption of export goods from production tax. Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates from a Special Export Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles F irms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to sur­ render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi­ dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances by Tu rk ish workers abroad are sold to the Central Bank at a special rate, wh ich on December 31, 1976 was LT 13.1253 per U . S. dollar; when the Tu rk ish l i ra equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33Vs per cent is immediately credited to the account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum resulting in an effective exchange rate on Decem­ ber 31, 1976 of LT 17.50 per U . S. dollar. The amounts deposited plus the interest can be withdrawn at any time. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll exports des­ tined to bilateral countries, exports of the commodities 10 Cereals, certain minerals such as molybdenum, wolfram, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, o i l­ seeds, skins, fertilizers, cattle, meat, timber, and paper. 11 Export tax rebates of 10-20 per cent apply to exports of fresh fruits and vegetables. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this l im i t. The import of Tu rk ish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Tu rk ish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Cap i tal transfers abroad by residents and capital trans­ actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. W i th the exception of certain investments made in accordance w i th the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments (N o. 6224) or the Petroleum Law (N o. 6326, as amended), foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for invest­ ment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Tu rk ish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the M in is t ry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey, but special facilities exist for borrowing from the "B locked Currencies F u n d" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non­ residents but not transferable under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sales proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by non­ resident physical or jur id ical persons, insofar as the property is not covered by Law N o. 6224 or Law N o. 6326. Except for approved investments, nonresi­ dents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; a ll earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property, and for l iv ing expenses of up to LT 9,000 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representa­ tives, and up to LT 5,000 for certain relatives. N o r­ mally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions; (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds 460 used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of For­ eign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the B locked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' investment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the M in is t ry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits have to be blocked again and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance w i th the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the pro­ visions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industries or in other indus­ tries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in wh ich the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, or w i ll operate in a field of activity open to Tu rk ish private enterprise and w i ll not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, a ll or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. U p on applica­ tion, the M in i s t ry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquida­ tion of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely trans­ ferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the M in i s t ry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, how­ ever, they must be presented to the M in i s t ry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum L aw is accorded additional preferential treat­ ment. By virtue of a policy statement of December 1971, Tu rk i sh participation in new foreign investments no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution longer is subject to a minimum of 51 per cent. In addi­ tion to investments under Law N o. 6224, foreign invest­ ments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor does not enjoy any transfer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition by Tu rk ish workers abroad of Tu rk ish shares and bonds. Nonresidents (including Tu rk ish workers abroad) may open demand and time accounts in convertible Tu rk ish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank, with commercial banks. In addition, authorized banks w i th deposits exceeding LT 2 b i l l ion are permitted to incur an overall foreign exchange position ( in cur­ rencies purchased and sold by the Central Bank) of up to US$20 m i l l ion. W i th the exception of borrowing by the Government from foreign governments or government agencies and from international institutions, a ll private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad from private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the M in is t ry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The M in i s t ry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is up to the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turk ish borrowers pay that bank the prevailing domestic interest rate. Regulations issued by the M in is t ry of Finance specify that, with certain exceptions, such credits must not amount to more than 60 per cent of the total cost of a project, their maturity must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the Eurodollar rate (the London Interbank Offered R a t e —L IBOR) by more than 1.75 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre­ sented for minting by the State M i n t. Imports of gold are free, provided that it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1976 January 6. The 1976 import program was published. To tal imports in 1976 were projected to be US$4 ,450 m i l l ion, compared with US$4 ,000 m i l l ion for 1975. T U R K EY This included US$2,900 m i l l ion for liberalized goods, US$1,450 m i l l ion for quota goods, and US$100 m i l l ion for imports from bilateral payments agreement coun­ tries. In addition, US$550 m i l l ion was set aside for self-financing imports outside the import program. Wh i le certain procedural changes were introduced in the import regulations, the deposit requirements remained unchanged. January 7. The export rebate on raw cotton was abolished. January 18. The export rebate on livestock was abolished. February 5. The Australian dollar was included in the foreign currencies bought and sold by the Central Bank. February 7. A regulation issued on December 18, 1975, under which the customs tariff rate on phosphoric acid was reduced to 15 per cent, was extended for another year. February 19. The customs tariff rates on tools and equipment to be used in the "artificial fertilization project" in accordance with the targets of the Th i rd F ive-Year P lan and imported by the M in is t ry of Food and Agriculture were reduced to zero. February 27. The importation of tankers up to 9 years old and passenger and cargo ships up to 13 years old was permitted freely, provided the vessels were over 1,600 gross tons or had 3,000 deadweight tons of below- deck enclosed cargo space. March 12. The maximum level of foreign exchange position the authorized banks w i th deposits exceeding LT 2 b i l l ion was permitted to maintain was reduced to US$5 m i l l ion. March 15. The official rates for the U . S. dollar were changed to LT 15.50 buying and LT 15.81 selling, per US $ 1. March 23. The importation of certain machinery, equipment, and materials used by the shipbuilding indus­ tries was exempt for one year from the regulations per­ taining to Local Manufacturing Status Certificates. April 1. Turk ish workers in the Federal Republic of Germany were permitted to open time and demand deposit accounts in foreign exchange with the Central Bank of Turkey and were granted some imports with waiver privileges depending on the maturity of their accounts. April 2. The official rates for the U . S. dollar were changed to LT 16.00 buying and LT 16.32 selling, per U S $ 1. April 9. The l im it of US$5 m i l l ion on the permissible overall foreign exchange position of authorized banks, imposed on Ma rch 12, was increased to US$20 m i l l ion. April 20. Fo l low ing the expiration of the bilateral payments agreement, settlements with Egypt were placed on a convertible currency basis. May 5. Authorized banks were permitted to issue certificates of deposit or promissory notes in foreign 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY exchange against convertible Tu rk ish l i ra deposit accounts, provided their face value did not exceed the amount of the deposit account and their maturity period was longer than three years. This regulation also applied to the unutilized portion of foreign credits received prior to the announcement of the regulation. May 5. Foreign exchange obtained under foreign cash credits for the purpose of financing projects for which "encouragement certificates" have been issued was required to be transferred to the Central Bank. July 2. Registered importers and industrialists were required to prepay in local currency, at the time of application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied whether the payment was to be effected against documents or goods. Importers who do not make the required pre­ payment within five working days were subject to pen­ alty payments equivalent to a certain ratio of the total value of imports, up to a maximum period of 60 days with a maximum rate of 50 per cent. July 6. Authorized banks handling import payments through acceptance credits were required to lodge with the Central Bank a deposit in Turk ish liras equivalent to 1 per cent of the foreign exchange value of the goods. August 10. The customs tariff rates on pocket watches and wrist watches were raised to 18 per cent, and those on watch parts and accessories were raised to 10 per cent. August 17. The annual limit for foreign exchange allowance for business travel, including travel by persons engaged in export businesses which are incurring losses, was raised to US$5,000 a person. August 27. Payments for imports of iron, fertilizers, assembled tractors, and spare parts for tractors and trucks were permitted in acceptance credits. September 1. The nominal rate used for the con­ version of workers' remittances was changed from LT 11.2503 per US$1 to LT 13.1253 per US $ 1. The rate of special interest paid on the amount converted remained unchanged at 33V3 per cent. October 28. Workers, professional persons, and busi­ nessmen who have worked abroad continuously for a minimum period of one year were permitted to import professional tools and machinery and automobiles up to the value (f.o.b.) of LT 30,000; this l im it is increased by LT 2,500 for each additional month, and by LT 30,000 for each additional year. Import licenses issued for this purpose must be utilized within two months. Alterna­ tively, the above-mentioned persons were allowed to maintain a foreign exchange deposit account with the Central Bank or a convertible Tu rk ish l i ra account with authorized banks for a minimum period of one year in an amount equivalent to the value of the automobiles they are entitled to import at a later date and to use these funds to import automobiles without restriction after the maturity date of such deposits. Import licenses issued in this connection must be utilized within three months. If deposit holders wish to use the funds to import professional tools or machinery before the maturity date of the deposits, partial use of such funds is permitted in accordance with the following schedule; 20 per cent after a waiting period of one year, 30 per cent after a waiting period of two years, 50 per cent after a waiting period of three years, 60 per cent after a waiting period of four years, and 80 per cent after a waiting period of five years or more. Workers, professional persons, and businessmen who deposit DM 100,000 or its equivalent of their earnings abroad were permitted to import, after one year from the date of the opening of the deposit, certain heavy machinery and equipment; persons depositing DM 50,000 or its equivalent were permitted to import similar goods after two years from the date of the opening of the deposit. October 28. The official rates for the U . S. dollar were changed to LT 16.50 buying and LT 16.83 selling, per US $ 1. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Uganda Sh i l l ing. A central rate of U Sh 9.66000 = S DR 1 has been established, and Uganda avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies 1 other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U . S. dollars; its rates for the U . S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U . S. d o l l a r -SDR rate, and its rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are based on the previous day's New Y o rk rates against the U . S. dollar. Authorized commer­ cial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies 2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U . S. dollar in New Y o r k, except for Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward with customers in sterling, U . S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract and that the term of the forward con­ tract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and the Uganda Adv isory Board of Trade ( U A B T) under the External Trade A ct (as amended) and by the Bank of Uganda. The Minister of C om­ merce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East A f r ican currency area but exchange control is applied to both Kenya and Tanzania. Under Uganda's exchange control regulations, the three countries are referred to as the Scheduled Territories. Prescription of Currency A ll payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected through U . S. dollar accounts held with banks abroad. Au thor ized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than shilling. - Austrian schillings, Belgian francs. Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U . S. dollars, and all former Sterling A r ea currencies other than the Uganda shilling. the Uganda Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain settlements w i th Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely w i th authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other Exter­ nal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable begin­ ning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transac­ tions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. A ll Blocked Accounts must be held with the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments A ll permitted imports require approval by the U A B T. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy. Import license applications are screened by eight specified companies, which are supervised by the U A B T. A Cabinet Committee under the M in is t ry of Finance periodically considers the recommendations of the U A BT in light of the availability of foreign exchange as notified by the Bank of Uganda, and makes block allocations which are divided and distributed by the specified companies. Licenses for raw materials are issued in the name of the U A BT for the account of the importer. The Na t ional Textile Board has a monopoly over the importation of most textiles. U p on approval of the application, the importer must lodge a commis­ sion of 1 per cent of the amount of the license w i th the U A B T. A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports normally must be pur­ chased direct from the country of origin. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Import payments normally are made under letters of credit opened in the name of the U A BT for the account of the importer; the latter generally must make fu ll payment to the authorized bank before the letter of 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U G A N DA credit is opened. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months from the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 3,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in travelers checks. The allowance is avail­ able for travel to any country except Kenya and Tan­ zania, for which holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person a year are normally available, and Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i c a, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried noncitizens recruited from outside East A f r i ca may obtain allocations for travel outside East A f r i ca at the time of their overseas leave. No foreign exchange is released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational mis­ sionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33V3 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family mainte­ nance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by trav­ elers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require licenses and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. A ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marke t ing Board over the export of coffee, and the L int Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot­ note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta­ tion and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, cop­ per, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning Ugandan residents may 464 bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in banknotes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to a ll countries are restricted and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender require­ ments in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling A rea assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings. A further transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. A ll remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or held on deposit with the Uganda Commercial Bank; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is transferable also dur­ ing the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; to secure guaranteed repatriation, however, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) A c t, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Industrial Licensing A ct and the Uganda Licensing A c t, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are in principle transferable. A ll imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is freely granted for the purchase by non­ residents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send any amount of money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. W i th minor exceptions, prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in Uganda which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U G A N DA dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the fol­ lowing from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1976 March 2. By virtue of the Petroleum (Exchange Con­ trol) Decree, 1976, payment in foreign currency was required for all petroleum sold for use by motor vehicles and aircraft other than those registered in Uganda or by the East A f r ican Community. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 1 (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The U . A . E. D i rham, whose official gold content is 0.186621 gram of fine gold, was first issued on M ay 19, 1973. On February 23, 1974, the United A rab Emirates established an initial par value with the Fund of 0.186621 gram of fine gold per U . A . E. dirham, corre­ sponding at the time to Dh 1 = SDR 0.21 or US$1 = Dh 3.94737. The U . S. dollar parity has since been maintained unchanged. The United A r ab Emirates avails itself of wider margins. The United A r ab Emirates Cu r­ rency Board establishes daily quotations for the U . S. dol­ lar only, within the limits of the wider margins. The Board deals with commercial banks, other financial institutions, governments, rulers of states, and quasi- government institutions. Commercial banks' rates for other currencies are fixed in relation to the U . S. dollar- dirham rate and the previous day's closing rates in New Y o r k, while taking into account market conditions in the G u lf area and the Far East. On December 31, 1976 the Board's buying and selling rates were Dh 3.975 and Dh 3.979, respectively, per U S $ 1 .2 The United A rab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United A rab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements with Israel and South A f r ica are pro­ hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi­ dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the A rab League. Imports of 1 The seven federated states of the United A r ab Emirates are A bu Dhab i, Duba i, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwan, Ras a l-Kha imah, and Fuja irah. 2 There are fixed rates of Dh 1 — QR 1 for Qatar riyals and Dh 10 = BD 1 for Bahrain dinars brought in by travelers from Qatar and Bahrain, applicable up to limits of QR 5,000 and BD 500, respectively, a person. 466 a few commodities are prohibited from a ll sources for moral, health, or security reasons. V i r tua l ly a ll other commodities may be freely imported without an indi­ vidual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodity or commodities specified in his license. Cer­ tain commodities (mainly rice, sugar, and flour) are imported by the state trading company, wh ich, however, does not have an import monopoly in any commodity. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for current invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel and South A f r i c a. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. V i r tua l ly all commodities may be exported freely, with­ out an export license, to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts from current invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Transactions and settlements involving Israel or South A f r i c a, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capi­ tal invested in the Un i ted A rab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold W i th the exception noted below, residents and non­ residents, including private persons, may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without an individual import or export permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade, like that of any other com­ modity, may only be undertaken by licensed parties. Transactions involving Israel, South A f r i c a, or com­ panies blacklisted by the A r ab League are prohibited. G o ld bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED A R AB E M I R A T ES Changes during 1976 March 14. The Currency Board suspended its daily quotations for the Lebanese pound. Quotations were later resumed but discontinued on November 16 (see be low). April 6. The Currency Board established daily quota­ tions for the Aus tr ian schilling. April 6. The Currency Board henceforth was pre­ pared to issue restricted licenses permitting foreign banks to establish branches in the Un i ted A r ab Emirates. Under such licenses, banks were not permitted to accept dirham deposits from residents other than banks. April 28. The Currency Board ceased quoting for­ ward exchange rates for the pound sterling. It continued to quote the U . S. dollar forward for maturities of one, three, and six months. It also continued to stand ready to engage in forward transactions in certain other cur­ rencies on request, at negotiated rates, for amounts in excess of US$250,000. September 1. Travelers from Qatar were permitted to use Qatar riyals in the Un i ted A rab Emirates at a fixed rate of QR 1 = Dh 1, for transactions up to QR 5,000 a person. Travelers from Bahrain were permitted to use Bahrain dinars in the Un i ted A rab Emirates at a fixed rate of BD 1 = Dh 10, for transactions up to BD 500 a person. November 16. The Currency Board ceased to give fixed quotations daily for currencies other than the U .S. dollar; previously, daily quotations were provided for 19 currencies. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling. Since June 23, 1972, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the pound within announced margins, and therefore all transactions in the official exchange market, except those in curren­ cies maintaining a fixed relationship with sterling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1976 were US$1.7015 and US$1.7025 per £ 1, respectively. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, except Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the influ­ ence of market forces; transactions with resident cus­ tomers may be entered into only for approved purposes, where there is an underlying commercial contract (or where an exporter is tendering for an overseas export contract), and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market (referred to as the investment currency market) in which certain foreign currency proceeds,1 resulting mainly from the sale outside the Scheduled Territories (the United K ingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of M a n, the Republic of Ireland ,2 and G ibra l tar) of foreign currency securities held for port­ folio investment purposes,3 and of most personal resi­ dential property situated outside the Scheduled Te r r i­ tories may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market; at the end of 1976, that premium was 45.82 per cent calculated at the ruling U . S. dollar rate in the official exchange market, the middle closing rate on Decem­ ber 31 being £1 = US$1.1672. These funds are nor­ mally available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities, for approved purchases of personal residential property in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, and, although little used for this purpose, for approved direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. 1 Under the U . K. exchange control regulations, foreign currency comprises all currencies other than the currencies of the United K i n g­ dom, the Republic of Ireland, and G ibra ltar. 2 The U . K. regulations refer to Ireland as the Republic of Ireland, and for the purpose of this survey the U . K. usage is being followed. :! The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country other than the United K ingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Sterling securities are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency. The term "securities" includes certifi­ cates of deposit and treasury bills. 468 The Un i ted K ingdom formally accepted the obliga­ tions of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory In general, the Un i ted K ingdom does not impose restrictions on exchange transactions or payments and receipts between residents of the Un i ted K ingdom and residents of the Scheduled Territories. Exchange control applies mainly to transactions with residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories. F or administrative purposes, the non-Scheduled Territories are divided as follows; (1) the other member countries of the EEC, except the Republic of Ireland; (2) the Overseas Sterling A rea (OSA, i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ireland and G ibra l tar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Te r r i to r ies ;4 (3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries, usually referred to as the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories ( R N S T ). Administration of Control Exchange control in the Un i ted K ingdom is adminis­ tered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U . K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requir­ ing exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from Scheduled Territories may be obtained in sterling, Irish pounds, or G ibra l tar currency; those from other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, must be in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Territories may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or G ibra l tar cur­ rency; payments to other countries, w i th the exception of Rhodesia, may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. F or security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the 4 The O SA thus comprises Austra l ia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, Solomon Islands, British V i rg in Islands, Brune i, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Fa lk land Islands and Dependencies, F i j i, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, Grenada, Guyana, Hong K on g, Iceland, India and S ikk im, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Ma law i, Ma lays ia, Maldives, Ma l ta, Mauritius and Dependency, Nauru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Gu inea, Pitcairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South A f r i c a, South West A f r i ca (Nam ib ia ), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuva lu, Uganda, United A r ab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the Un i ted K ingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t; authorized payments for exports from the Un i ted K ingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, w i th the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are l iv ing temporarily in the Un i ted K ingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the Un i ted K ingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permit­ ted only for living expenses within the United K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of resi­ dents of the Un i ted K ingdom. Thus, for transfers between Scheduled Territories no U . K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the terri­ tory concerned. External Accounts. W i th the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see be low), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with authorized banks in the Un i ted K ingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Scheduled Territories, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or for­ eign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including banknotes), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Scheduled Territories. External Accounts may be debited, subject to general or special permission, for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the Un i ted K ingdom, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (Un i ted U N I T ED K I N G D OM Nations Sanctions) (N o. 2) Order 1968; payments by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the Un i ted K ingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the terri­ tory concerned; and payments by U . K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the dis­ count or maturity proceeds of U . K. treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered customs in the Un i ted K ingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pen­ sions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased husband's employment, (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or M a l aw i, (8) maturity proceeds of certain endowment insurance policies, and (9) expen­ diture in gathering news material. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for l iv ing expenses in the Un i ted K ingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their families; authorized purchases of U . K. sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United K ingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories for (1) interest on and repayment of outstand­ ing personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trade­ marks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U . K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the Un i ted K ingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) l iv ing expenses, educational fees, and incidental expenses, (d) insurance premiums and capital and annuity payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £ 2 50 for any one pay­ ment, to individuals and religious, medical, educational, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds pro­ vided the person was a member of the fund before November 1 1, 1965 or before taking up residence in Rhodesia after that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Payments in respect of educational and medical expenses in Rhodesia also are permitted. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not normally allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U . K. tax payments and safe custody 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM charges due on the monies in question, (2) used within specified limits for l iv ing expenses in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom of residents of Rhodesia and certain other personal payments, or (3) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U . K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is given for residents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to pur­ chase U . K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted K ingdom and to purchase U . K. treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permis­ sion is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian or foreign currency securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived from the immediate sale pro­ ceeds of other Rhodesian or foreign currency securities, respectively. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in L o n­ don and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Scheduled Territories and the O SA, and pensions due from Rhodesia to resi­ dents of the United K ingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and most parts of the OSA are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet educational payments in the United K ingdom, the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Scheduled Territories and the O SA, and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for account of per­ sons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes countries outside the United K ingdom other than Rhodesia 5 are divided into 12 groups: the A CP A r e a ,6 the C E F TA A r e a ,7 the Community A r e a ,8 the Do l lar A r e a ,9 the Far Eastern and Western A r e a ,10 Japan, the Mediterranean A r e a ,11 licensing control and 5 A ll goods from Rhodesia are subject to licenses are not normally granted. 0 The A CP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Central A fr ican Emp ire, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Gu inea, Eth iop ia, F i j i, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Grenada, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, L iber ia, Madagascar, Ma law i, M a l i, M au r i­ tania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Vo l ta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. 7 The C E F TA Area comprises Austr ia, Belgium, Denmark, F in land. France, Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (West), Iceland, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. 8 The Community Area comprises all E EC member states. 9 The Do l lar Area comprises Bo l iv ia, Canada, Co lomb ia, Costa R ica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Ha i t i, Honduras, L iber ia, Mex ico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 10 The Far Eastern and Western A r ea comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 11 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Ma l ta, Morocco, Spain, Tun is ia, and Turkey. 470 the O CT A r e a ,12 Romania, the State Trad ing A r e a ,13 the Residual Textile A r e a ,14 and a ll other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General Import License with­ out restriction, w i th the following exceptions as at the end of 1976: (1) from all other countries, seven com­ modities or groups of commod i t i e s ;15 (2) from the Do l lar A rea only, two commodities or groups of com­ modities; (3) from Japan only, certain textiles; (4) from the n o n - C E F TA countries only, one commodity; (5) from Romania only, one group of commodities; (6) from the Republic of Ch ina, one commodity; and (7) from the State Trading A rea only, ten com­ modities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the Open General Import License; a number of items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without l im it as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to E EC regulations. Once licensing requirements have been met to import from countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General Import License or some other form of license, U . K. residents may purchase foreign currency or credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the Un i ted Kingdom ia The O CT Area comprises Ang lo-French Condom in ium of the New Hebrides, Belize, British Antarctic Terr itory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British V i rg in Islands, Brunei. Cayman Islands, Comoros, Fa lk land Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Gilbert Islands, Mayotte, Montserrat, Nether­ lands Antilles (A ruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maar ten ), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn Islands, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and M ique lon, Seychelles, Solo­ mon Islands, Surinam, French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuva lu, Wa l l is and Futuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States (Ant igua, Dom in ica, St. Luc ia, St. Vincent, St. K i t ts -Nev is -Angu i l la ). 1 :1 The State Trad ing Area comprises A lban ia, Bulgaria, Cambodia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and Berlin (Ea s t ), Hungary, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, People's Republic of Mongo l ia, Poland, U .S .S .R ., Viet Nam, and also Roman ia. 14 The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories other than those included in the A CP A r ea, the C E F TA Area, the Far Eastern and Western A r e a, the Mediterranean A r ea, the O CT A r ea, and the State Trad ing A r ea. 15 Cocoa and cocoa preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Cocoa Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals and most primary whale products also cannot be imported under the Open General License from any source. The restrictions on cotton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Austra l ia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of pay­ ment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England where the payment is considered necessary or in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Current administrative practice is not to allow advance payments for consumer goods. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories; neither are they required for payments to residents of other coun­ tries, unless the payment represents part or final settle­ ment for goods for wh ich the total amount payable exceeds £ 5 , 0 0 0, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sched­ uled Territories may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of R h o d e s i a )10 is granted freely for all purposes, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £ 1,000 or its equivalent. Au thor ized banks are per­ mitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for wh ich no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Au thor ized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay­ ment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. F or any type of travel outside the Scheduled T e r r i­ tories (except to Rhodesia), U . K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equivalent of £ 3 00 a person a trip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £ 75 a day up to a maximum of £ 3 , 0 00 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for additional amounts are .approved by the Bank of England unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the Un i ted K ingdom. Travel exchange purchased in the Un i ted K ingdom must normally be recorded in the traveler's passport. 1 ,5 F or security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardship and to remittances of a continuing nature by chari­ table, religious, medical, and educational organizations for both cur­ rent purposes or to meet capital expenditure in the educational and medical fields. Small personal gifts are also permitted where humani­ tarian grounds exist. U N I T ED K I N G D OM Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per­ sonal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to £ 30 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resident travelers may take out up to £ 3 00 in foreign currency notes. A ny unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency may be retained for a period of one month from the date of return to the Un i ted K ingdom. Banks have authority to approve applications by U . K. residents who wish to open foreign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel funds for use during their stay abroad. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months from the date of issue or for one month from the date of return to the Un i ted K ingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £ 25 in U . K. and other Scheduled Territory bank­ notes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of M an may take out any amount. Visitors to the United K ingdom are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in w i th them, other than notes in excess of £ 25 expressed in the currencies of the Un i ted K ingdom or the Republic of Ireland. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appro­ priate documentary evidence of the amounts due, appli­ cations to pay fees, accommodation charges, and a ll incidental expenses arising from the education of U . K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia. F or approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England w i ll authorize the issue of foreign currency at a rate of up to £ 10 a day with a maximum of £ 3 0 0. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are normally issued only for the permitted exceptions (medical and educational supplies, foodstuffs where these are special medical preparations, newsfilm and photographs, and documentary and printed matter not more than 70 years old) and for equipment for the essential replacement needs of the Rhodesian Railways and the Central A f r ican Power Corporation. V i r tua l ly all exports to other destinations are free of export control and no exchange control forms are normally required. Exporters to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must normally obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment; special exchange control permission to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months without cover from the Export Credits Guarantee Department ( E C G D ). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an author- 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM ized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients of such currencies have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other banknotes may be brought into the Un i ted K ingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United K ingdom who receive foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities held for portfolio invest­ ment purposes and the sale of personal residential property situated outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase of marketable foreign currency securities, the purchase of personal residential property outside the Scheduled Territories, or the making of approved direct invest­ ments outside the Scheduled Territories; they may also sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purposes. If permission is not forth­ coming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the Un i ted K ingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in foreign currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must normally be sold to an autho­ rized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.17- 18 In certain circumstances, residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who possess the nationality or citizenship of a country outside the Scheduled Te r r i­ tories or, in some cases, who are former residents of O SA countries but do not possess such nationality or citizenship may be granted exemption from certain of their obligations under the Exchange Con t rol A ct in respect of assets denominated in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by resi­ dents of the Un i ted K ingdom into the beneficial owner­ ship of residents of other Scheduled Territories. 17 Where currency is received from the sale of residential real estate by residents of other Scheduled Territories, permission may also be given for such funds to be regarded as investment currency. 18 The full amount of the foreign currency proceeds is normally per­ mitted to be sold as investment currency when the whole of a resi­ dential property is sold which has been held for private use; when it has been held as an investment, however, the proceeds are not nor­ mally eligible to be treated as investment currency. 472 A ll capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Each indi­ vidual resident of the Un i ted K ingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts or personal loans not exceeding a total of £ 1 , 0 0 0, or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to residents of the O SA, as well as a further £ 3 00 or the equivalent to residents of other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia; additional amounts may be allowed under appropriate circumstances. The cash gifts allowance is noncumulative and is not transferable from one resident to another. A resident of the United K ingdom with dependents who are established residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may make payments from his own resources not exceeding £ 2 , 0 00 a year to support those dependents. Such payments, which may be gifts or loans, are outside the cash gifts scheme and do not prejudice the normal cash gift allowances. F or security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means, except to relatives, or other Rhodesian residents where humanitarian reasons are given, to the extent of £ 75 during any period of two years. F or direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories, official exchange is normally made available only for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U . K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign cur­ rency receipts that would not take place without the investment. F or such projects ("super-criterion,, proj­ ects), official exchange may be made available up to £ 2 5 0 , 0 00 or 50 per cent of the total investment, which­ ever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the invest­ ment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an over­ seas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U . K. parent company on appropriate terms, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of dis­ investment in the context of a group reorganization. Direct investment other than for super-criterion projects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fall directly upon the U . K. official foreign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the Un i ted K ingdom by way of benefits arising from the investments; such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrow­ ing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U . K. parent company on appropriate terms, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. The permitted pro­ portion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one third of net earnings after taxes, applied, if desired, on a global basis where more than one sub­ sidiary is i n v o l v e d .19 The purchase outside the Scheduled Territories of marketable foreign currency securities for portfolio investment must be financed either with investment currency or w i th foreign currency borrowing. Such borrowing is freely permitted when undertaken by or through U . K. professional security managers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this manner is exempt from the "25 per cent requirement" (see above) until the loan portfolio is liquidated and the profit repatriated. Purchases of marketable foreign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositaries. Purchases from other residents may also be effected w i th sterling on The Stock Exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency pre­ m ium ). The purchase by U . K. residents of a house or an apartment for personal use in countries outside the Scheduled Territories requires specific approval and must be made either from another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory currency, or from a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories w i th investment currency or borrowed for­ eign currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made w i th investment currency. (As an exception to this rule, residents temporarily employed in member countries of the E EC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommodation at current official market rates of exchange.) App roval is normally limited to one property a family; purchases of investment currency are normally limited to reasonable amounts and may be made before exchange control approval is received provided that the funds are held by an authorized depositary and that a formal application is lodged to purchase the property w i th in six months. The approval authority for amounts up to <£ 30,000 for a residential property has been delegated to authorized banks. 19 W i th effect from February 11, 1977 applicants for permission to make an outward direct investment were required to provide details of estimated benefits over the 18 months following the proposed invest­ ment and estimates of the benefits expected thereafter in all cases. In addition, investors seeking permission to repay foreign currency bor­ rowings taken to finance outward direct investments had to give an explanation if the benefits received fell short of those originally esti­ mated; the Bank of England also expected the investor to show, where possible, that these benefits derived from the particular injection of capital financed by the foreign currency borrowing being repaid. U N I T ED K I N G D OM A ll proceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories other than residents of Rhodesia are remit­ table at the official market rate of exchange. Pay­ ments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies are also authorized freely. Residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure from the United K ingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non- Scheduled Territory nationals or citizens, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United K ingdom return to take up residence in any country outside the Scheduled Territories) may normally trans­ fer all their sterling assets abroad at the official market rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories and the OSA except Rhodesia are allowed on departure to transfer for a family unit up to <£5,000 through the official foreign exchange market (<£ 20,000 for older persons) and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of <£ 5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a non­ resident. U . K. residents taking up residence and employ­ ment in member countries of the E E C, however, may, with specific approval, transfer sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange in excess of the £ 5 , 0 00 limit where this is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the employment in question. F or emigration to the O SA, the basic settling-in allowance is £ 2 0 , 0 00 also available at the official market rate of exchange, and holdings of foreign currency securities are exportable. Du r ing the four-year period the restricted funds may be disposed of for foreign currencies other than Rhode­ sian currency through the investment currency market, may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on The Stock Exchange, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market, or may be used, with general or specific permission, to meet certain expenses in the Un i ted K ingdom. After the four-year period any remaining assets are trans­ ferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the transfer at the official market rate of exchange is normally allowed. The participation of foreign capital as a direct invest­ ment in the Un i ted K ingdom is subject to individual authorization, wh ich is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip­ tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases involving the take-over of existing companies that by their size or nature con­ stitute a vital part of Br i t ish industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct invest­ ment in the Un i ted K ingdom by nonresidents are normally, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and, in certain circumstances, on any subsequent finance being provided in foreign currency or External Account sterling at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. The acquisition in any manner by any person not resident in the United K ingdom of 10 per cent or more of the outstanding shares of a company registered in the United K ingdom requires prior exchange control approval. Nonresident firms and individuals must obtain per­ mission from the Treasury in order to raise capital in the United K ingdom, and all U . K. resident companies are required to obtain consent before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. U . K. residents also need permission to lend to U . K. companies controlled by nonresidents. Such permission is normally given for sterling lending for the purpose of financing the com­ pany's day-to-day business, provided that the level of nonresident funds in the company is at all times suffi­ cient to cover the percentage of the fixed and other noncurrent assets attributable to the nonresident stake, but is not normally given for any expansion of manu­ facturing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U . K. economy. There are three important exceptions to these principles: (1) Un l im i ted sterling finance in the United K ingdom is normally allowed to U . K. companies in which any nonresidents have less than a controlling interest, except to companies which are purely vehicles for portfolio investment in securities or property. (2) U . K. companies controlled by residents of the E EC or the OSA that are not purely vehicles for portfolio invest­ ment are normally allowed unlimited sterling finance for their operations anywhere in the United K ingdom. (3) U . K. companies controlled by residents of any non -EEC country ouside both the Scheduled Territories and the O SA are upon application allowed similar facilities in respect of expenditure on new manufacturing capacity in the areas of the Un i ted K ingdom which qualify for special government assistance (the assisted areas), while their requests in respect of such new expenditure in other areas of the Un i ted K ingdom are considered on their me r i ts .20 U . K. banks are prohibited from providing sterling 474 loans or overdrafts to persons resident outside the Sched­ uled Territories for the purpose of financing trade between non-Scheduled Territories. S im i lar ly, U . K. merchants, except certain commodity traders, may not finance such trade in sterling. They are, however, allowed to do so w i th foreign currency borrowed for the purpose. Borrowing by U . K. residents from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to finance expenditure in the United K ingdom is subject to restrictions. Private sector U . K. residents other than authorized banks nor­ mally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories for conversion into sterling for use in the Un i ted K ingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Sched­ uled Territories, unless the term of borrowing is at least two years; exporters, merchants, and certain commodity traders are, however, permitted to borrow foreign cur­ rency for shorter periods from authorized banks or from nonresidents to finance their sales or, in some cases, stockholdings. Pub l ic sector bodies normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency unless the term of the foreign borrowing is at least five years; for permitted foreign currency borrowing they may avail themselves of exchange cover provided by the Treasury. Authorized banks must not lend foreign currency to U . K. residents (other than authorized banks) for any other purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. U . K. companies normally are not permitted to borrow External Account sterling from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories unless the term of the borrowing is at least two years. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositaries, transactions in securities of most types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the United K ingdom, except that transactions wh ich involve loss of U . K. voting control of a company because the purchaser is itself nonresident-controlled require Bank of England consent and transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on The Stock Exchange. Residents are normally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories, and, in respect of those held for portfolio investment purposes, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for certain approved direct investment or approved pur­ chases of property for private use outside the Scheduled Territories. The proceeds of sale of foreign currency securities held as direct investments must be sold at -° On Ma r ch 29, 1977 the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the intention to amend the Exchange Control Act of 1947 so as to strengthen control over the raising of sterling finance by companies resident in the U . K. but controlled by persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the official market rate of exchange or, where appropri­ ate, may, w i th Bank of England permission, be retained in foreign currency for use for further outward direct investments in the context of a group reorganization. When foreign currency securities are sold by residents on The Stock Exchange for sterling, an amount of invest­ ment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" in foreign currency securities may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement in respect of transactions on the "book" but not in respect of sales of securities held as investments. Investment currency held for a continuous period of 6 months normally ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the 6-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Investment currency may normally be retained as investment currency for a maximum of 12 months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an author­ ized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange marke t .21 Professional security managers acting on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U . K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day bor­ rowing of foreign currency, whether from U . K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not prevented by the U . K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the Un i ted K ingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on The Stock Exchange, but they must obtain the permission of the U . K. authorities to buy and sell other foreign currency securities in the United K ingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the Un i ted K ingdom in which a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a gen­ eral authority. In most cases, U . K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U . K. authorities. -1 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final maturity) or in six-month treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money-market paper (including certificates of deposit) without incur­ ring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. U N I T ED K I N G D OM Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on The Stock Exchange against payment in foreign currency or in sterling from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United K ingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on The Stock Exchange for settlement in foreign currency or, in certain circumstances, for settlement in sterling exclud­ ing the investment currency premium. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the Un i ted K ingdom other than on The Stock Exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the Un i ted K ingdom for sterling which may be held on External Account or, alter­ natively, may be transferred abroad at official market rates. Most transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England; subject to certain conditions, however, authorized banks may approve applications by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell sterling securities on The Stock Exchange. Except in respect of U . K. companies controlled by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories (where Bank of England consent is required), warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities regis­ tered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addresses outside the Scheduled Territories. These warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business. They may also switch such deposits into sterling on a covered basis. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in foreign cur­ rencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold In the United K ingdom gold bullion and gold coins are subject to control. Exemption under the Exchange Con trol Ac t, 1947 exists for: (1) the buying, selling, lending, and borrowing of gold coins minted in or before 1837; (2) the buying and selling of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom, if the seller is a person resident in the Un i ted K ingdom and is not selling on behalf of a person resident outside the Un i ted K ingdom; and (3) the borrowing and lending of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the United K ingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are persons resident in the United K ingdom. Transactions both in gold coins not exempted above and in gold bullion may only be undertaken with permission. Permission is normally given for the use of gold bullion for genuine industrial 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM and professional purposes. The sale of gold bullion for the manufacture of gold coins, gold medals, etc., is prohibited unless specially authorized. G o ld sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate in the Un i ted K ingdom. G o ld coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of M a n. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom or which, having been current there, has at any time after M ay 16, 1969 ceased to be so. G o ld coins minted after 1837 or gold medals, medallions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions and manufactured after 1837 are subject to individual import licensing, and such licenses are normally given only to authorized dealers in gold. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. The export of gold bullion and of post-1837 gold coins to G ibra l tar and the Republic of Ireland is not normally permitted except with the approval of the local control authorities. Au thor i ty has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Scheduled Territory resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign currency. A license is required from the Department of Trade for the export of gold (and other) jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufactured form over 100 years old and valued at <£4,000 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade. Manufactures of gold other than medals, etc., manu­ factured after 1837 may be imported without quan­ titative restriction under Open General Import License from all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Te r r i­ tories, and (3) residents of the O SA who are sellers of new production. The U . K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of XA of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. Authorized banks may enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permis­ sion from the Bank of England. Banks may also finance purchases of gold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories by lending foreign exchange and may accept gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or External Account sterling to nonresidents of the Sched­ uled Territories. Changes during 1976 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with E EC decisions, directives, and regu­ 476 lations; most of these related to textiles or beef and veal. January 1. The fourth reduction of 20 per cent in import duties on goods originating in E EC member countries took place. January 1. The import duties on certain textile goods from Portugal, which had been temporarily imposed in 1975, reverted to zero. January 1. Cigars from the Do l lar A rea were placed on Open General Import License. January 1. New quota levels for imports from East­ ern A rea countries came into effect. There were a num­ ber of subsequent modifications. January 15. Imports from all sources other than E EC member countries of portable monochrome and all color television sets and color television tubes not already subject to individual import licensing became subject to import surveillance arrangements. January 24. Imports of certain horticultural products from the Eastern A rea and of petroleum oils and several petroleum products from Romania were placed on Open General Import License. February 1. The limits for export insurance cover under comprehensive guarantees without reference to the E C GD were doubled. February 6. Imports of monochrome television tubes from the Eastern A r ea ceased to require an individual import license. The quota facilities for the importation of color television tubes from the Eastern A rea were withdrawn, and licenses were no longer issued. February 10. Au thor ized banks were enabled to approve certain applications (for up to £ 5 0 , 0 0 0) to credit to External Account, or to remit abroad in foreign currency, the proceeds from the sale of U . K. houses or apartments sold by nonresident individuals. February 10. The rules covering sterling lending to nonresidents were tightened. Banks granting new sterling facilities to residents of the O SA to finance trade had to ascertain that the goods in question were either being imported into or exported from an O SA country; such facilities could not be used to finance domestic trade within an O SA country, nor should they be outstanding for longer than the period of credit agreed between buyer and seller. February 17. Authorized depositaries were advised that deposit certificates and depositary receipts relating to sterling securities were themselves sterling securities (with the exception of depositary receipts which, although relating to underlying sterling securities, were enfaced to the effect that for U . K. exchange control purposes they were foreign currency securities). Except in certain cases of authorized depositaries wishing to engage in the arbitrage of depositary receipts and the underlying sterling securities, the Bank of England was not prepared to give permission for U . K. residents to purchase from persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories depositary receipts relating to sterling securi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ties or to exchange sterling securities for depositary receipts. March 6. Imports of combined sound recorders and reproducers from the non-Community A rea ceased to require an individual import license. March 11. Quotas for 1976 were imposed on imports of men's woolen suits from Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, and Romania. (On December 30, the quotas for Czechoslovakia and the German Demo­ cratic Republic were extended to calendar year 1977 at the same level.) It was announced that Czecho­ slovakia, Poland, and Romania had agreed to an exten­ sion of the 1975 voluntary restraints on exports to the Un i ted K ingdom of leather footwear (excluding san­ da ls), and that Hungary and Poland had agreed to introduce voluntary restraint on exports to the Un i ted K ingdom of men's and boys' woolen suits. April 1. Continuation of import arrangements for restricted cotton textiles was announced for countries with which agreements under the G A TT Multifiber Arrangement had not yet been concluded or were not to be negotiated. April 1. New quota levels were announced for imports of cotton yarn from Hong Kong, India, and Pakistan for the period January 1, 1976 -Ma rch 31, 1977, and for imports of woven cotton textiles and cotton yarn from Bangladesh, G ibra l tar, Iran, Kuwa i t, Sri Lanka, South A f r i c a, and the Syrian A rab Republic during A p r il 1, 1976 -Ma rch 31, 1977. April 12. The higher rate of value-added tax was reduced from 25 per cent to 12V2 per cent. April 22. The Bank of England withdrew the con­ cessions relating to the eligibility for sale with the benefit of the investment currency premium of two classes of foreign currency assets exempted from certain obligations imposed under the Exchange Con t rol A c t, v iz ., exempted foreign currency securities and exempted cash balances arising from the sale of property situated outside the Scheduled Territories. Permission would no longer be given for exempted foreign currency securities to be sold with the benefit of the investment currency premium; transactions in such securities should be effected only in accordance w i th the terms of the exemption given to the beneficial owner. In addition, the Bank of England was no longer prepared to con­ sider applications for exempted foreign currency arising from the sale of property held for private use outside the Scheduled Territories (whether acquired while the owner was resident outside the Scheduled Territories or not) to be treated as investment currency. Complementary regulations were adopted affecting immigrants and residents who acquired foreign currency assets while work ing abroad. Foreign currency securi­ ties beneficially owned by immigrants at the time of their becoming resident in the Un i ted K ingdom ceased to be eligible for transfer with the benefit of the invest­ ment currency premium unless the immigrant became U N I T ED K I N G D OM resident in the Un i ted K ingdom prior to A p r il 22, 1974. Similarly, permission no longer was given for foreign currency securities, purchased by residents of the Un i ted K ingdom with savings from earnings while working and l iv ing outside the Scheduled Territories for three years or more, to be sold with the benefit of the investment currency premium unless the owner returned to the United K ingdom prior to A p r il 22, 1974 and had been continuously resident in the Un i ted K ingdom since he returned, and the securities were beneficially owned by the person concerned on the date of return. In the case, however, of foreign currency securities owned by immigrants from the Republic of Ireland or G ibra l tar who became resident in the Un i ted K ingdom on or after A p r il 22, 1974, the Bank of England was prepared to consider applications for such securities to be regarded as eligible for transfer in accordance with previous practice if, prior to immigration, the foreign currency proceeds of the securities concerned would have been eligible to be treated as investment currency. April 22. The exchange control concessions for per­ sons who are, or are to be, temporarily employed in the O SA were withdrawn. A l so withdrawn were certain concessions to emigrants taking up employment in the O SA and to those emigrants to the O SA who had planned their departure before June 23, 1972. April 22. The Bank of England ceased to give per­ mission for commissions or fees attributable to the underwriting of foreign currency securities and received in foreign currency to be treated as investment currency. A letter of clarification was issued on A p r il 30. April 22. Authorized depositaries were advised that there was no objection under the Exchange Con trol Act of 1947 to U . K. residents participating in the under­ writing of specific issues of foreign currency securities, and that the Bank of England was prepared to consider applications from authorized depositaries who were pro­ fessional dealers in securities to participate in the under­ writing of specific issues of unquoted securities. April 22. New delegated authorities were given to authorized banks to approve applications for the maintenance of certain foreign currency accounts in connection with the receipt in foreign currency of pensions, directors' fees, dividends and interest, and the proceeds of exports and merchanting business and pay­ ment for imports and merchanting business. They could also approve applications for U . K. residents tem­ porarily working or studying outside the Scheduled Territories to maintain foreign currency accounts with U . K. authorized banks for certain purposes. April 22. Authorized banks were enabled, subject to certain conditions, to approve applications by U . K. resident individuals to purchase investment currency (up to the equivalent of £ 1 5 , 0 0 0, excluding the invest­ ment currency premium) to make payments for certain improvements to property held for private use outside the Scheduled Territories, and to transfer sums at the 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM official market rate of exchange or use foreign cur­ rency rents already held on an authorized account to make certain payments for the maintenance of such properties. Authorized banks could approve the latter on an estimated annual basis, provided that remittances were not made more than three months before pay­ ments were due. April 22. W i th respect to emigration to countries outside the Scheduled Territories, banks were informed of certain additions to the payments in the United K i n g­ dom that concessionary banks could allow to be met from funds restricted under Section 40 of the Exchange Con trol A c t, and certain additions to the types of invest­ ment in the Un i ted K ingdom that they could effect using such restricted funds. Banks were reminded of certain aspects of current exchange control practice, notably that assets restricted under Section 40 could be used as collateral for foreign currency borrowing by emigrants, and that former residents of countries now in the O SA who emigrated prior to June 23, 1972 could apply for the removal of any restrictions imposed on their assets by the Bank of England. April 29. A provisional charge to countervailing duty of 16 per cent was imposed on men's leather fashion footwear from B r a z i l. Subsequently, a countervailing duty of 8 per cent was imposed. May 10. The Bank of England ceased to treat as investment currency any part of the proceeds of sales of options on foreign currency securities by U . K. residents. May 17. The stamp duty on transfers of fixed-interest stocks, other than convertible stocks, was abolished. May. Surveillance licensing of electronic calcula­ tors from all sources except E EC member countries was maintained on a national basis, following the termina­ tion of Community surveillance arrangements. June 7. It was announced that the financial author­ ities of the G roup of Ten countries and Switzerland, together with the Bank for International Settlements, would make available to the Bank of England a stand-by credit of US$5.3 b i l l ion for a period of up to six months. June 9. A quota was established up to M ay 25, 1977 for imports of sacks and bags of polyethylene strip or polypropylene strip originating in Ko rea. June 22. Dealers in the primary market in foreign currency securities, when acting as members of selling groups for new issues, no longer were required to trans­ fer funds from the investment currency market to the official market in respect of certain earnings from their new issue activities. July 1. The quota imposed on December 17, 1975 on imports of spun cotton yarn from Spain for the first half of 1976 was extended at roughly the same level to December 31. The quotas of December 17, 1975 affecting spun cotton yarn and man-made fiber fabrics from Portugal were replaced by an export 478 restraint agreement concluded between the E EC and Portugal. July 22. An antidumping duty of 25 pence a kilo­ gram was imposed on polyester fiber from Romania. July 29. A quota for 1976 was imposed on imports of men's and boys' woolen jackets from Czechoslovakia. On December 30, the quota was extended to calendar year 1977 at the same level. August 6. It was announced that with effect from October 1 the export credit guarantee scheme would be extended to cover losses which exporters invoicing in certain major foreign currencies might incur on the forward market, or, in case of buyer default, on a for­ eign borrowing. August 18. A quota for 1976 was imposed on imports of men's and boys' woven synthetic shirts from the People's Republic of Ch ina. On December 30, the quota was extended to calendar year 1977 at the same level. August 24. The rules governing the provision of sterling finance by U . K. banks to O SA residents were further tightened so as to allow banks to provide such finance only against original documents relating to a specific current movement of goods, either into or out of an OSA country, and provided that the transactions were settled throughout in sterling with the period of credit complying with the normal terms of trade and not exceeding 180 days. September 21. A general permission was granted for U . K. resident purchasers of property situated in the Scheduled Territories (or persons acting on their behalf) to make payments connected with the purchase to solici­ tors resident and practicing in the Un i ted K ingdom who are acting for vendors resident outside the Scheduled Territories, or for persons selling such property on behalf of nonresident vendors. September 23. The amount of foreign exchange facilities that authorized banks and other persons pos­ sessing the necessary authorities could provide U . K. residents for business, professional, and official travel outside the Scheduled Territories was increased from the equivalent of £ 2 , 0 00 to £ 3 , 0 00 a trip, and the rate per day at which such facilities could be provided was increased from £ 40 to £ 7 5. October 1. A quota was imposed on imports of portable monochrome television sets from the Republic of Ch ina, for the period to December 31, 1977. October 13. Imports from Romania of men's and boys' shirts of woven man-made fibers were suspended pending the outcome of discussions between the E EC Commission and Romania. October 25. A provisional charge to the antidumping duty of 10 per cent was imposed for three months on Spanish stainless steel bars and billets. (On January 25, 1977 it was extended for three months.) November 3. The Secretary of State for Trade pro­ vided a survey of measures taken to control imports in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the last 18 months. It was noted, among other things, that understandings had been reached w i th Japan on a number of sensitive imports (including bulk steel, stain­ less high speed and tool steel, pottery, cutlery, ball bear­ ings, television sets, and automobiles), and that in some 20 cases anti-dumping duties had been imposed or satisfactory undertakings by supplier countries accepted. November 18. The Bank of England gave the neces­ sary permissions for the issue in the Un i ted K ingdom (without declarations) of bills denominated in sterling by U . K. local authorities. Those concerned were reminded that sterling bills issued by local authorities were bearer sterling securities and, as such, were subject to the deposit requirements. November 19. U . K. banks were advised that the merchanting of goods between non-Scheduled T e r r i­ tories by U . K. residents could no longer be financed in sterling and that U . K. residents would be allowed to pay nonresidents for goods on-sold to other nonresidents only with foreign currency borrowed for this purpose; no change was made in the arrangements for trading by participants in commodity schemes. At the same time, sterling credit facilities provided for OSA trade were brought into line with those available to other nonresi­ dents and restricted to the financing of trade between the rest of the world and the Scheduled Territories. These measures were designed to terminate the use by U . K. residents of official exchange to finance trade between any of the non-Scheduled Territories and were expected to produce a substantial inflow of foreign cur­ rency as drawings under the previous facilities were repaid. Banks were free to replace the sterling facilities hitherto made available by offering appropriate finance in foreign currency to overseas customers or to U . K. merchants. The Bank of England would consider appli­ cations for U . K. residents to maintain new foreign cur­ rency accounts for conducting their merchanting busi­ ness on a foreign currency basis; the authority for banks to approve applications from U . K. residents to main­ tain foreign currency merchanting accounts was with­ drawn. The permission for banks to convert foreign currency bills into sterling was also withdrawn with immediate effect. November 20. A quota was imposed on imports of men's and boys' woven synthetic undergarments from the Peoples Republic of Ch ina. The quota was extended to calendar year 1977 at approximately the same level. December 3. The Inland Revenue issued a ruling that, where U . K. residents raised foreign currency loans to finance portfolio investment in foreign currency securities, the investment currency premium was allow­ able as part of the interest charge against corporation tax. December 9. Fo l low ing the conclusion of an E EC textiles agreement w i th Romania, increased quota levels for calendar year 1977 were announced for imports U N I T ED K I N G D OM from that country of woolen suits, men's shirts, and various other garments. December 13. Insurance companies receiving premi­ ums in sterling from foreign accounts were permitted to use 75 per cent thereof to purchase foreign currency to be held on deposit. Insurers were previously allowed to hold 75 per cent of a premium received in a foreign currency, in that foreign currency. December 15. The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the intention to reduce public expenditure on export credit refinancing. Steps would be taken to encourage export credits in foreign currency, which previously were not available. Tighter controls were to be introduced on the rate at which the E C GD would approve new fixed-rate sterling finance. The clearing banks had agreed to finance from their own resources an additional <£100 m i l l ion of fixed-rate sterling busi­ ness in each of the next two years. It would be proposed that the cost escalation scheme, which had been due to end in Ma rch 1977, would be maintained for another year. (On January 13, 1977 the International Finance, Trade and A id B i ll was published. It proposed an increase from £ 1 8 .2 b i l l ion to £ 25 b i l l ion in the statutory limit for the E C G D 's sterling commitments, with provision for further increases by order to £ 40 b i l l ion. The b i ll also contained a measure which would enable the E C GD for the first time to take on commit­ ments in foreign currencies; a separate statutory l im it of initially SDR 10 billion was proposed, with provi­ sion for staged increases by order to SDR 25 b i l l ion .) December 15. It was announced that the Bank of England had been offered stand-by credits of US$500 m i l l ion by the financial authorities of the Un i ted States and of US$350 m i l l ion by the Deutsche Bundesbank. December 21. The supervision over sales of foreign currency securities and investment currency for sterling was tightened. The Treasury announced new monitor­ ing and examination arrangements. (The monitoring system was formally implemented on M a r ch 15, 1977.) Certain changes, to take effect on Ma rch 31, 1977. were also announced in the categories of persons qualifying automatically as authorized depositaries. December 23. The E C GD was authorized to use the powers in Section 2 (2) of the Export Guarantee A ct 1975 to make loans in foreign currencies to overseas borrowers. (On February 1, 1977 new measures were announced to facilitate the switch to foreign currency financing of exports. In future, the E C GD would under­ write larger project cases only where these were financed in foreign currency. A l so, foreign currency financing would normally be required for all project business w i th certain countries and would be actively sought in a number of others. ECGD-guaranteed sterling finance would no longer be available for contracts requiring support for n o n -U .K. elements, and general purpose sterling lines of credit would not be established or 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM renewed unless previous lines had been used fully and rapidly. Interest rates for foreign currency buyer credits would be held to the minimum levels permitted under the international guidelines of June 1976. The insurance premiums on buyer credit business would be the same for sterling and foreign currency contracts. Under cost escalation cover, eligible foreign currency credit contracts would in future enjoy the more favor­ able terms hitherto applicable to cash contracts only.) December 24. It was announced that imports of rum from the Do l lar A r ea would be liberalized with effect from January 14, 1977. December 24. A provisional charge to the antidump­ ing duty of £ 38 a ton was imposed for three months on steel reinforcing bars from South A f r i c a. December 30. The Bank of England informed par­ ticipants in the commodities schemes of a tightening of exchange control policy relating to credit, for trade in physical commodities, that they might extend to nonresident buyers. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Do l lar was estab­ lished on October 18, 1973 at 0.736662 gram of fine gold, corresponding to US$42.22 a fine ounce or US$1.20635 = SDR l .1 The convertibility of the U . S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets has been suspended and exchange rates are not maintained within any stipulated margin from parity. There are no restric­ tions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cambodia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V i e t -N am, and those imposed pursuant to UN Security Counc il Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any person in Rhodesia (including the authorities thereof), unless the funds are in payment of imports of strategic and cr i t ical materials of Rhodesian o r ig in .2 The Un i ted States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury deals with license applications involving financial or commercial transac­ tions directly or indirectly with Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, Rhodesia, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V i e t -N am or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Con t rol Regulations, the Cuban Assets Con t rol Regula­ tions, and the Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations. It also deals with license applications under the Foreign Funds Con t rol Regulations involving the blocked accounts in the Un i ted States of the above-mentioned countries, as well as the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, La tv ia, and L i thuan ia. The Bureau of Customs of the Department of the Treasury administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. A global import quota on sugar is set by the Department of Agr icu l ture. A l l o­ cations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. F or items subject to export control other than crude petroleum and petroleum products the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. 1 U . S. Pub l ic Law N o. 94-564 provides that the par value of the U . S. dollar in terms of gold and SDRs will be repealed when the proposed second amendment to the Fund's Articles of Agreement enters into force. - In addition, certain enemy and occupied area property blocked during W o r ld W ar II remains blocked (Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Ger­ man Democratic Republic, La tv ia, and L i thuan ia ). As regards Rho­ desia, the exception for imports of strategic and critical materials was revoked early in 1977. Payments restrictions in respect of Cuba were eased early in 1977. Imports and Import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless licensed, if such merchandise is of Cambodian, Cuban, No r th Korean, No r th Vietnamese, South Vietnamese, or Rhodesian origin. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts, pursuant to Section 22 of the Ag r icu l tu ral Adjustment A c t; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes; (3) sugar; (4) certain meat; and (5) stainless steel and alloy tool steel products. W i th the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, butter o i l, and sugar, the above quotas are on a country-of-production basis. In addition, imports of crude o il and o il products are subject to quotas, an import entitlement program, and import license fees. Certain products (such as wheat, cotton, and peanuts), although subject to quantitative restrictions, are not sub­ ject to import licensing because U . S. prices are at or very near world prices. The Un i ted States is a party to the G A TT Arrange­ ment Regarding International Trade in Textiles and to 18 bilateral textile agreements negotiated under the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements set the levels for the partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the Un i ted States. As at the end of 1976, no l im i ta­ tions were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, but these were generally subject to import licenses and import license fees. Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mutton are governed in principle by 12 bilateral agreements as an alternative to the imposition of mandatory quotas under the Meat Import A ct of 1964; during the last four months of 1976, however, a temporary quota was in effect. The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for all purposes, including payment for imports of strategic and critical materials (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license; these exceptions are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V i e t -N am. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Con trol in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to Cambodia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Eastern Europe, No r th Ko rea, South A f r i c a, the U .S .S .R ., No r th V i e t -N am, or South V ie t- N am. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued except for educational, 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES medical, or humanitarian items. A ll exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V i e t -N am are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic mate­ rials and equipment to a ll other countries (except Can­ ada) also require individual validated licenses. F or many commodities, when exported to countries other than C M EA members, certain A rab states, Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, No r th V i e t -N am, or South V ie t- N am, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a full year's shipments. The licensing require­ ments applicable to Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to controls for reasons of short supply; as at the end of 1976 such controls were applicable to crude petroleum and petroleum fuels. Export plans for wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean o il are subject to report­ ing requirements in order to avoid the need for controls. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are pro­ hibited to and from Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, Rhodesia, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V ie t -Nam. Indi­ viduals leaving or entering the country with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and /or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest­ ment are generally free of any other form of approval requirements, although in certain instances compliance with specified banking regulations may be required; with a few exceptions, the Un i ted States does not impose special restrictions on inward investment. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involving Cambodia, Cuba, No r th Ko rea, Rho­ desia, No r th V i e t -N am, and South V i e t -N am, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country (as well as corresponding report­ ing requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the ma i ls ). Federal Reserve member banks must meet reserve requirements of 4 per cent on net Eurodollar borrowings from their foreign branches; foreign-owned nonmember banks and agencies and branches of foreign banks volun­ tarily maintain reserves against increases in their net borrowings from foreign sources above their M ay 1973 levels, at the request of the Federal Reserve Board. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or 482 with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to limitation. Gold U . S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for gold transactions involving Cambodia, Cuba, North Ko rea, Rhodesia, No r th V i e t -N am, or South Viet-Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, w i th the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is no longer required, with the same exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. G o ld may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U . S. gold coins remain legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quan­ titative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no duty on gold ore, bu l l ion, or coins. A ll forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the Un i ted States. Changes during 1976 January 1. Executive Order N o. 11888 brought the System of Generalized Tariff Preferences (GSP) into effect. January 7. Presidential Proclamation N o. 4110 termi­ nated the temporary quota restrictions on imports of certain beef and veal from Canada. January 7. The maritime agreement signed with the U .S .S .R. on December 29, 1975 came into force and replaced the 1972 agreement. U . S. flag vessels con­ tinued to be guaranteed the carriage of at least one third of all U . S. grain sold to the U .S .S .R. January 12. The I TC found injury to domestic indus­ try from imports of birch veneer door panels from Japan. Subsequently, antidumping duties were imposed by the Treasury. January 14. The U . S. Supreme Court overruled its 105-year-old decision that had limited the power of states and cities to place taxes on imported goods. January 16. New Treasury Department regulations required U . S. commercial banks to provide greater and more frequent detail about their forward foreign exchange operations. January 16. The U . S. International Trade Commis­ sion ( I TC) reported to the President its determination that stainless steel and alloy tool steel were being imported in such increased quantities as to cause serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry. This was the Commission's first affirmative decision in an import relief investigation under the U . S. Trade Act of 1974. On M a r ch 16, the President stated that he would impose quotas for a three-year period unless export restraint agreements could be negotiated with major exporters within 90 days. February 6. The Board of Governors of the Federal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Reserve System amended its Regulation M to prevent duplication of Eurodo l lar reserve requirements when a foreign branch lends to a corporation operating under Section 25 or 25(a) of the Federal Reserve A ct that is maintaining reserves on such credit under Regulation K, and when a foreign branch lends to a foreign-owned U . S. banking institution that is voluntarily maintaining member bank reserves on such credit pursuant to the Board's requests of June 1, 1973 and A p r il 9, 1975. February 20. The I TC reported to the President its determination that the U . S. footwear industry was suffer­ ing serious injury from increased imports of nonrubber footwear. On A p r il 16, it was announced that the Presi­ dent would not impose quotas or tariff increases on footwear but would ask instead for relief in the form of increased unemployment benefits and job retraining. On December 28 the Commission ruled for the second time that the domestic industry producing nonrubber footwear was being injured by foreign competition. (On February 8, 1977 the Commission reported to the Presi­ dent that the domestic footwear industry was being seriously injured by imports and recommended that tariff rate quotas be imposed. On A p r il 1, 1977 the President instead instructed his Special Representative for Trade Negotiations to seek export restraint agree­ ments with the Republic of Ch ina and Ko rea, and directed the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Labor to cooperate with the Special Representative to make the full resources of the U . S. Government avail­ able to assist the domestic footwear industry and its workers; the assistance was to include measures to improve production efficiency and marketing techniques.) February 26. The Executive Order implementing the G SP was updated and revised by Executive Order N o. 11906. It modified the limitations on preferential treatment of eligible articles from countries designated as beneficiary developing countries and adjusted the original designation of eligible articles. G SP eligibility was extended to 77 items imported from 24 countries whose exports of those items in 1975 fell below the competitive need limitations of the Trade A ct of 1974. The Order also removed from G SP eligibility 92 items from 29 countries whose exports of those items in 1975 exceeded the competitive need limitations of the Trade A c t. The Lao People's Democratic Republic was excluded from G SP eligibility. March 1. The I TC ruled that imports of stainless steel flatware were injuring domestic producers and rec­ ommended the imposition of a tariff rate quota system. On A p r il 30 the President decided to grant expedited trade adjustment assistance to the domestic industry. He also decided to terminate special protective tariffs on such imports effective September 30. March 17. The I TC ruled that imports of canned mushrooms were causing serious injury to the domestic industry and recommended that import relief be pro­ vided. On M ay 17 the President directed that the U . S. U N I T ED S T A T ES mushroom industry be given expedited trade adjustment assistance. On September 20 the President directed the Commission to reopen its investigation of imports of canned mushrooms to determine whether quotas or other restrictions were deemed necessary. (On January 10, 1977, the Commission again recommended to the Presi­ dent that import relief be provided to the U . S. mush­ room industry.) March 26. Presidential Proclamation N o. 4423 imposed an import quota of zero pounds on certain mixtures of dried milk effective M a r ch 31, 1976. March. The Un i ted States and major meat exporting nations reached agreement on a voluntary meat import control program for 1976 intended to hold beef imports to 1,233 m i l l ion pounds, the trigger level which under the Meat Import A ct of 1964 would force the Un i ted States to impose mandatory meat quotas. On October 9 the President imposed a global meat import quota for 1976 totaling 1,233 m i l l ion pounds of fresh, chilled, and frozen beef, veal, and mutton. F or a ll countries with which meat agreements were in force, except Mex ico, the country quota for 1976 was the same as the agreed level. April 1. Countervailing duties were imposed on imports of frozen boneless beef from E EC countries. April 22. The Treasury Department ruled that Ireland was subsidizing exports of frozen boneless beef to the Un i ted States in violation of U . S. countervailing-duty laws. April 30. The President ordered the termination of protective tariffs on flatware and dishware. The higher tariffs on stainless steel flatware would terminate on September 30 and duties on dishware would be e l im i­ nated over three years. May 4. The Treasury Department announced it would conditionally discontinue its antidumping investigation against foreign exporters of automobiles, who had been tentatively found to be selling automobiles in the Un i ted States at less than fair value, provided it received cer­ tain assurances that price differentials between home market and export sales would be mitigated. Another condition of the discontinuance was the monitoring of sales to the Un i ted States by foreign producers that had been investigated. On August 13 five foreign automobile manufacturers agreed to raise their 1977 prices in the Un i ted States by from 1 per cent to over 10 per cent in response to Treasury Department findings that their selling prices in the United States were lower than those at home. June 11. An agreement was signed with Japan on the level of specialty steel exports to the Un i ted States over the next three years. June 11. Presidential Proclamation N o. 4445 imposed global import quotas for a three-year period on stainless steel and alloy tool steel products (except razor blade steel). This action was modified on November 16 by Proclamation N o. 4477. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES June 25. The An t idump ing Regulations were amended to bring them in conformity with the provisions of the Trade A ct of 1974, with effect from July 26. August 30. Executive Order N o. 11934 modified the list of products eligible for the G S P, designated Portugal as an eligible G SP beneficiary, and formally excluded the Lao People's Democratic Republic from the list of countries eligible for G SP treatment. September 21, Presidential Proclamation N o. 4463 increased the import duty on sugar from 0.6625 cents a pound to 1.9875 cents a pound. September 21. The I TC instituted an import relief investigation in respect of sugar beets and sugar cane, and various sugars, syrups, and molasses. (On M a r ch 17, 1977 the Commission reported to the President that the domestic sugar industry was being threatened with serious injury by increased imports and recommended that quota restraints be imposed. However, the Presi­ dent subsequently denied the Commission's recom­ mendations.) October 1. The General Services Administration announced a policy change in the strategic stockpile program designed to assure a three-year supply rather than a one-year supply of minerals, metals, and other cr i t ical materials. October 1. The five-year agreement on grain sales signed with the U .S .S .R. on October 20, 1975 came into force. October 1. An Executive Order extended the Export Administration A ct of 1969 so as to keep export control regulations operative after the law had expired on Sep­ tember 30. October 4. The President signed the Tax Reform A ct of 1976 ( P . L. 94-455) into law. Among other things, the tax benefits available to Domestic International Sales Corporations (D ISC s) were modified and provision was made for penalties for U .S. companies that are found to be participating in an international boycott that the U .S. Government does not approve. The A ct also amended Section 502(b) of T i t le V of the Trade A ct of 1974 to deny beneficiary status under the G SP to any country which aids or abets, by granting sanctuary from prosecution, any individual or group which has committed an act of international terrorism. October 19. The President signed P . L. 94-564, which provided that the par value of the U . S. dollar in terms of gold and SDRs would be repealed when the proposed second amendment to the Fund's Articles of Agreement entered into force. October 21. The I TC initiated an import relief investi­ gation in respect of television receivers, both color and monochrome, assembled or unassembled. (On M a r ch 22, 1977, the Commission reported to the Presi­ dent its finding that increased imports of television receivers were causing or threatening serious injury to domestic producers and recommended that duties be 484 raised. However, the President denied the recommen­ dations and announced that the Un i ted States would seek to negotiate voluntary export restraints with the Republic of Ch ina and Korea .) November 4. It was announced that the Federal Reserve System was planning to tighten record-keeping and reporting standards for bank transactions in foreign currencies. The new guidelines were being developed in cooperation with the Comptroller of the Currency, the regulator for national banks. November 21. A ten-year agreement on economic, industrial, and technical cooperation was signed with Romania. November 26. A Presidential Proclamation increased the import duty on bottled brandy valued at over US$14 a gallon, and on bulk brandy valued at over US$9 a gallon, to US$3 a gallon. December 15. The Un i ted States reached substan­ tive agreement with major meat-exporting countries on ^arrangements to govern trade in meat, mainly beef, dur­ ing 1977. The overall system of arrangements with supplying countries would provide assurance that aggre­ gate imports would not exceed 1,281.9 m i l l ion pounds in 1977, an increase of 4 per cent over 1976. Canada, which had not been a participant in previous restraint programs, would be covered by the 1977 arrangement, but the precise terms were still under discussion. December 21. The Federal Open Market Committee agreed on broad revisions (with effect from Decem­ ber 28) in the Federal Reserve System's Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and in the Foreign Currency Directive. The main change in the Authori­ zation was to replace the several separate limits on vari­ ous types of spot and forward transactions with a single US$1 b i l l ion l im it on the System's "overall open posi­ tion"; the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk was separately authorized, however, to maintain an overall open position in foreign currencies exceeding that limit by an amount equal to the remaining forward commitments associated with the System's outstanding 1971 swap drawings in Swiss francs. The principal modification in the Directive was to omit the detailed listing of basic purposes and specific objectives of the System's foreign currency operations and to state instead that these were generally to be directed at countering disorderly condi­ tions in the exchange markets. The Committee also agreed upon certain procedural instructions. The main purposes of the revisions were to simplify and clarify the Committee's instructions to the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk and to update the docu­ ments in light of changes under way in the international monetary system and its functioning. The revisions were not intended to signify a change in policy orientation but simply codified current practice under the evolving regime of floating exchange rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VO L TA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Upper Vo l ta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 wh ich is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The B C E AO levies a commission of Vio of 1 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i on and a commission of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to countries outside the U n i o n .2 Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the F rench franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to a ll countries outside the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i o n, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and T e r r i­ tories, except the F rench Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N iger, Senegal, and T o g o ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Upper V o l ta itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Pub l ic Accounts in the M in i s t ry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertis­ ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper V o l t a, inward direct investment and a ll outward invest­ ment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper V o l ta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of C F AF 400,000) has been delegated to the B C E AO and, w i th in limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter­ mediaries. The B C E AO also is authorized to collect, 1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a commission of C F AF 100 for each transfer. The commissions are not levied on transfers ordered by public treasuries and similar institutions or by the Postal Administration of Upper Volta. either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange trans­ actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the B C E A O. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce in the M in i s t ry of C om­ merce, Industrial Development, and M ines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the French F ranc A r e a, are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper V o l ta is an Operations Account country of the F rench Franc A rea, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury; settle­ ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settle­ ments with The Gamb ia, Ghana, L ibe r ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made in West A f r ican account­ ing units through the West A f r ican C lear ing House. Cer­ tain settlements with Ghana are to be made through special accounts. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of Ch ina and the Federal Republic of Germany are also channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually made either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs (or other Franc A rea currencies) through Fo r­ eign Accounts. A ll settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO bank­ notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E AO banknotes, F rench banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French F ranc A rea may in pr in­ ciple be made freely, although exceptionally, special 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U P P ER V O L TA regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in E EC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate (attestation). Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from n o n -EEC countries outside the French Franc A r ea are admitted in accord­ ance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this pro­ gram, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regulations. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000. The import licenses or import certificates (attestations) entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and an import surcharge of 6 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. A ll payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments to foreign countries freely, on behalf of residents, up to C F AF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip ( C F AF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to Upper Vo l ta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of C F AF 400,000 a trip. Resi­ dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO bank­ notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc A rea may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary 486 U n i o n, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out, in addition to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of C F AF 175,000 or, subject to the submission of appro­ priate documents (if it was either declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc .), any large amount. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper V o l ta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, again subject to submission of documentation. F ina l ly, they may take out freely up to C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, F rench banknotes, and banknotes issued by Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the F rench F ranc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agri­ cultural products require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circum­ stances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within two months of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). A ll export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commit­ ment and submit a customs certification. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical duty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench Franc A rea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings must not be received in or from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Opera­ tions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of C F AF 5,000 that they bring in and w i th in eight days after return surrender these to an authorized bank. Capital A ll capital movements between Upper V o l ta and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Upper V o l ta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper V o l t a; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper V o l t a, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member coun­ tries of the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i o n, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institu­ tions, and over a ll publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of Upper V o l ta require prior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance .3 Foreign direct investments in Upper V o l t a4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial liquidation of either type of investment also is subject to prior declaration to the M in is ter. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper V o l ta investments abroad or foreign invest­ ments in Upper V o l t a, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the B C E AO within 20 days following each operation. D irect investments are defined as invest­ ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com­ panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper V o l ta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Vo l ta. i Including those made by companies in Upper V o l ta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper V o l ta of foreign companies. U P P ER V O L TA provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Since October 30, 1975, foreign firms operat­ ing in Upper V o l ta are obliged to "Voltai'ze" their capital within two years, up to at least 51 per cent in vital or priority sectors and up to at least 35 per cent in a ll others. The sale to residents of Upper V o l ta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Vo l ta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sales value. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Vo l ta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper V o l ta Gove rn­ ment and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper V o l ta has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization; (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Vo l t a, or by international trading houses previously approved by the M in is ter of Finance to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out­ standing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 100 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are imme­ diately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the B C E A O, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Ordinance N o. 7 0 - 0 7 4 / P R E S / P L - TP of December 31, 1970, the Investment Code, provides preferential treat­ ment for foreign investment in Upper V o l t a. Two pref­ erential categories (A and B) are established, in accord­ ance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Law N o. 2 5 / 6 1 / AN set up an assistance fund for new industries. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U P P ER V O L TA Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Vo l t a. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the M in i s t ry of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufac­ tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com­ bined weight of 500 grams. Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1976 January 9. Order N o. 2 1 / MF was issued regarding financial relations w i th The Gamb ia, Ghana, L iber ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone. March 15. France again suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the C FA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. June 14. C i rcu lar N o. 2 6 / MF was issued concerning financial settlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, Liberia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone. July 1. The West A f r ican C lear ing House formally came into operation. 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for Uruguay's currency, the New Peso. Exchange transac­ tions take place in a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market and a financial market. Payments and receipts in respect of imports other than books (except when the exchange is purchased more than 180 days after the due date), exports other than books, freight and insurance on imports, and most public sector exchange operations are settled in the commercial market, where the exchange rates are fixed (although adjusted from time to t ime ). A ll other exchange transactions take place in the financial market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On Decem­ ber 31, 1976 the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were NU r $ 3 . 96 and NU r $ 4 . 0 0, respectively, per US $ 1, and those in the financial market were NU r$4 .155 and NU r$4 .160, respectively, per US $ 1. Various additional effective exchange rates arise from the fo l low ing: (1) the application of exchange taxes (detracciones or retenciones) to the proceeds from cer­ tain traditional exports; (2) the payment of subsidies through tax credit certificates (reintegros) on proceeds from certain exports; (3) a 40 per cent tax on certain profit remittances; and (4) the sale in the financial market of the excess of the actual f.o.b. value over the assumed c.i.f. value (aforo) or minimum surrender value (sobreaforos) on wool exports. The Central Bank of Uruguay supplies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for imports, and the proceeds from exports (valued at the officially assessed price or the aforo where applicable) must be surrendered to the monetary authorities.1 There are no restrictions on exchange transactions in the financial market; exchange houses whose principal business is making exchange transactions, must be authorized by the Cen­ tral Bank. Administration of Control Exchange transactions in the commercial market are carried out through authorized banks, banking houses, and the monetary authorities. A ny person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the financial market. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges, export taxes, and consular charges and accepts export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system; these coun­ tries are Argentina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mex ico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and B r a z i l. Settlements with other countries in the commercial market are made in U .S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Most transactions in the financial market take place in U .S. dollars, Argentine pesos, or Braz i l ian cruzeiros. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. An import declaration (denuncia) must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic before the goods are shipped at origin. Imports of fully assembled automobiles are temporarily prohibited. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge (recargo). Goods are classified into nine categories; goods in one category bear no surcharge; goods in other categories are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 55, 75, 120, 150, or 200 per cent, payable at the time of registration.2 Imports from L A F TA countries receive a full or partial exemption from these surcharges. Most imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, and the above-mentioned import sur­ charge, to an additional import duty of 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable upon customs clearance, and to another import surcharge (recargo tributario a la im­ portation) of 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable two days after import registration.3 A ll imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value at the commercial market rate. These charges are 3.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetra- ethyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same com­ modities by the Adm in is t ra t ion Nac ional de Com­ bustibles, A l cohol y Portland ( A N C A P ) — t he state o i l, alcohol, and cement enterprise; 4 per cent for a ll other private sector imports; and 0.5 per cent for other imports by A N C A P. Import taxes and surcharges are in most cases ca l­ culated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab­ lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an officially assessed price, which usually is expressed in U .S. dollars per kilogram. 1 The Central Bank was established on Ma r ch 1, 1967, but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 2 On M a r ch 2, 1977 the surcharges of 75, 120, 150, and 200 per cent were reduced to 65, 90, 110, and 150 per cent, respectively. :? On M a r ch 2, 1977 the 7 per cent surcharge was raised to 10 per cent for almost all imports. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U R U G U AY Importers may purchase foreign exchange in the com­ mercial market at any time from 5 days before to 180 days after the payment to the supplier falls due.4 Purchases at any later date must be made in the financial market unless they are refinanced within 180 days.5 Purchases with an exchange rate guarantee (ventas futuras) require a peso deposit at the time of applica­ tion; the exchange is provided on the due date and the applicable exchange rate is the commercial market rate on the date of application for the guarantee. The facility is available only for import transactions that are financed abroad, and capital goods are ineligible. Payments for Invisibles Freight and insurance on imports are settled in the commercial market. Payments for a ll other invisibles may be made freely through the financial market. Cer­ tain profit remittances are subject to a tax of 40 per cent. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal traditional exports, except beef, are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are withheld by the monetary autho­ rities on the basis of either the f.o.b. value or the aforo value of the commodity concerned. The tax is stipulated in pesos per unit of export commodity (as a percentage of the f.o.b. value for woo l ), but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The exchange proceeds of traditional exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities, upon receipt. At the end of 1976 the prescribed maximum surrender period was generally not later than 30 days after the date of the shipment authorization request for traditional exports, and 210 days after shipment for nontraditional exports. For wool exports, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U . S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. There are special arrangements for the advance surrender (preanticipos) of the exchange pro­ ceeds from exports that are financed in foreign currency, either abroad or by domestic banks. Surrender must be before the export is registered and is permitted for wool, meat, cereals, oilseeds, and nontraditional exports. Sub­ sidies in the form of tax credit certificates (reintegros) of up to 45 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain (primarily nontraditional) exports. Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially authorized), specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and n i ck e l ), and protein concentrates * With effect from February 28, 1977 the maximum was lowered to 120 days. 5 With effect from February 28, 1977, 120 days. 490 used for animal feed are prohibited. Exports of sheep­ skin, wheat, sorghum, corn, and sunflower seeds are prohibited when production falls short of domestic con­ sumption requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles. A ny individual or firm may accept foreign currencies at the rate prevailing in the financial market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either resi­ dents or nonresidents may be made freely through the financial market, w i th the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment L aw. However, certain borrowing abroad is controlled, and the amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under the Foreign Investment Law cannot normally be trans­ ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. New foreign investments in Uruguay, as we ll as certain existing foreign invest­ ments, are governed by a Foreign Investment Law (Law N o. 14179 of M a r ch 28, 1974, as amended by Law N o. 14244 of July 26, 1974, Decree N o. 808/974 of October 10, 1974, and Law N o. 14371 of A p r il 29, 1975). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the transactions are registered. G o ld may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Any private purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, how­ ever, must either be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings or settled through the financial mar­ ket. Imports and exports of gold for industrial use are settled through the commercial market. Changes during 1976 January 28. Decree N o. 3 /976 suspended the pro­ hibition on exports of deboned meat. The prohibition had been in effect since July 1971. January 28. Decrees No s. 16/976, 17/976, 39/976, and 40 /976 increased the taxes (detracciones) on exports of sheepskins and cowhides. These taxes, stated in terms of new Uruguayan pesos per kilogram of export, were periodically increased throughout the year, rising roughly in line with the rate of devaluation. February 17. Decree N o. 94 /976 exempted all imports by municipal governments from the 7 per cent import surcharge. Previously, only imports of certain capital goods by municipal governments were exempt. February 19. Decree N o. 128/976 exempted all imports designated for projects financed by international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agencies and other public sector capital investment projects from the 7 per cent import surcharge. Pre­ viously, only imports of capital goods for these projects had been exempt. April 8. Decree N o. 196/976 temporarily authorized imports of t in containers. April 29. Decrep N o. 221 /976 eliminated the prohibi­ tion against forward exchange transactions. May 13. Decree N o. 259 /976 reduced with effect from July 1 a ll tax credit certificates by 10 per cent of the previous percentage wh ich had been paid. May 20. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 747 eliminated the system of swaps w i th the Central Bank. Swaps could s t i ll be transacted between private sector entities. June 2. Decree N o. 294 /976 lifted the requirement that certain imports of capital goods be financed from abroad. June 24. Decree N o. 364 /976 eliminated the regula­ tion which restricted exchange transactions to authorized banks and banking houses. Under the new regulations any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the financial market. Exchange dealers, whose pr in­ cipal business is to conduct exchange transactions, must s t i ll be authorized by the Central Bank (Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 766 of July 2 1 ). June 24. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 756 established new terms for export contracts which may be entered into by exporters of traditional exports, varying from 60 days for sheepskins to 240 days for unwashed wool and to 300 days for wool tops. U R U G U AY June 24. Decree N o. 364 /976 eliminated the regula­ tion which restricted the net foreign exchange position of commercial banks (Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 760 of June 2 4 ). August 27. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 774 eliminated anticipos, the special financing arrangement for exporters who surrender anticipated foreign exchange earnings before payment but after registration; the same C i rcu lar increased the annual interest rate on preanticipos to 10 per cent. November 1. The practice of deducting marketing commissions and profits of up to 5 per cent from the f.o.b. value of goods was extended from nontraditional to traditional goods. Those commissions paid in Uruguayan new pesos must be negotiated on the financial market. Those that have been paid in foreign exchange can be sold freely, while those to be paid in foreign exchange w i ll require a check or transfer made out by the bank to the receiver of the commission. Profits from beef marketing may be sold freely (Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 787 ). December 6. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 792 increased the time limit on advance surrender of foreign exchange from wool exports from 75 days to three months. December 7. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 793 increased the annual interest rate on preanticipos to 12 per cent. December 28. The Counc il of State approved a law on a unique customs duty (impuesto aduanero unico) to replace numerous existing import duties and to come into force on July 1, 1977. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bo l ivar. The exchange rate is Bs 4.2925 per U . S. dollar, except that a rate of Bs 4.20 per U . S. dollar applies in any exchange transactions arising in connection with the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries in the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron ore industries. The Central Bank's buying rate for all transactions other than those of the public sector and international organizations is Bs 4.28 per U . S. dollar. The Central Bank's buying rate for the public sector and international organizations and the selling rate between the Central Bank and the commer­ c ial banks is Bs 4 .2925 .1 The commercial banks purchase foreign exchange from the public at rates close to Bs 4.28 per US $ 1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.30 per US$1 for all transactions; foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained from the Central Bank. Some foreign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buying and selling rates usually are slightly below B s 4 . 30 per U S $ 1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the M in is t ry of Development or the M in is t ry of A g r i­ culture and Livestock, depending on the commodity; for certain agricultural products, the prior approval of the Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t ing Corporation must be obtained before applications for export licenses are submitted to these ministries. Under the terms of an agreement between the Government and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to imports of wheat for human consumption and to certain exports of coffee and cacao. The Superinten- dency of Foreign Investments ( S I E X) is charged with supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trademarks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Cuba, the Dom in ican Republic, 1 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1, for travel expenses. 492 Ecuador, Mex ico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include fully assem­ bled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, citrus fruit, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, natural pearls, and matches. In addition, many other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restric­ tions applicable irrespective of origin are maintained on some of these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South A f r i c a. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity imported (contingentamiento). A ll other commodities are free from import licensing. Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles may be made freely; pri­ vate sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made from commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited in princi­ ple to 14 per cent per annum of registered foreign capi­ tal. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemp­ tions exist for children under seven, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodities. Export licenses for most commodities are issued by the M in is t ry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l­ ture and Livestock. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. There are no surrender requirements for export pro­ ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices. E l ig ib i l i ty for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements based on guaranteed minimum prices may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be ex t end ed to firms p ro c e s s ing dom e s t ic coffee or c a c ao f or expo r t. N o n t r a d i t i o n al expo r t s, as w e ll as c e r t a in a g r i c u l t u r al expo r t s, are e l i g i b le for f ree ly n ego t i ab le tax ce r t i f ica tes, as an expo rt i n c e n t i v e, p r o v i d ed that the v a l ue add ed n a t i o n a l ly is at least 30 per cen t. A ll expo r ts to R h o d e s ia a nd S o u th A f r i ca are p r o­ h i b i t e d, as are expo r ts of p e t r o l e um a nd m i l i t a ry e q u i p­ m ent to the P e o p l e 's R e p u b l ic of C h i na a nd N o r th K o r e a. Proceeds from Invisibles E x c h a n ge rece ip ts f r om i n v i s i b l es are f ree ly d i spo s ab l e. T r a v e l e rs m ay f ree ly im p o rt d om e s t ic a nd f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n c y, w i th the e x c e p t i on that the C u r r e n cy L aw p r o­ h ib i ts the im p o r t a t i on for c omm e r c i al purposes of fo r­ e ign c o i ns o ther t h an g o ld c o i n s. T he im p o r t a t i on of V e n e z u e l an g o ld c o i ns is re se rved for the C e n t r al B a n k. Capital A ll i n w a rd a nd o u tw a rd c a p i t al transfers are per­ m i t t ed f ree ly. B r o k e r a ge a c t i v i ty in V e n e z u e l a, how ev e r, in shares or un i ts of f o r e i gn inve s tment trusts or m u t u al funds is p r o h i b i t e d. F o r e i gn c a p i t al im p o r t ed f or inves t­ ment pu rposes a nd a ll f o r e i gn c red i ts must be reg is te red w i th S I E X. N a t u r al gas a nd i r on m i n i ng op e r a t ions are re se rved f or the S ta te, a nd f o r e i gn inve s tment in the p e t r o l e um sec tor is p r o h i b i t e d. T he C e n t r al B a nk regu­ lates b a nk c r e d it to non re s iden ts a nd c om p a n i es who se c a p i t al is m o re t h an 50 per cent ow n ed by p h y s i c al per­ sons or c om p a n i es that are res ident or d o m i c i l ed a b r o a d. T he G e n e r al B a n k i ng L aw of D e c em b er 30, 1970 (as am e n d ed on S ep t emb er 7, 1974 a nd on M ay 2 2, 1975) au tho r i z es the G o v e r nm e nt to regu la te b a nk c r ed it to c om p a n i es who se c a p i t al is m o re t h an 40 per cent ow n ed by non r e s id ent or f o r e i gn p h y s i c al persons or c om p a n i e s. T h is l aw a lso p rov id es s p e c i al r egu l a t ions for f o r e i gn b anks o p e r a t i ng in V e n e z u e l a. Gold V e n e z u e l an g o ld c o i ns are l eg al tender but do not c i r c u l a t e. R e s id en ts m ay h o l d, a c q u i r e, a nd s e ll g o ld co ins in V e n e z u e la for n um i sm a t ic a nd inv e s tm ent p u r­ poses. T he C e n t r al B a nk does not d e al in g o ld w i th the p u b l i c, but g o ld c o i n s, m e d a l l i o n s, a nd ba rs are f ree ly nego t ia ted am o ng l i c e n s ed im p o r t e r s, exchange houses, a nd the p u b l i c. C o m m e r c i al banks m ay f r e e ly nego t ia te g o ld co ins am o ng themse lves a nd w i th o ther res iden ts but do not n o r m a l ly d e al in g o ld w i th the p u b l i c. Im p o r ts a nd expo r ts of m o n e t a ry g o ld are re se rved f or the C e n t r al B a n k, as is the im p o rt of g o ld c o i ns that are l e g al tender in V e n e z u e l a. O t h er im p o r ts a nd expo r ts V EN E ZU E LA of g o ld r equ i re l icenses. Im p o r ts r e q u i re l icenses f r om the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce a nd in c e r t a in cases a lso f r om the M i n i s t ry of D e v e l o pm e n t, w h i le expo r ts are l i c e n s ed by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce o n l y. T he l aw p resc r ibes a l icen se f or a ll im p o r ts a nd expo r ts of g o ld by anyone not reg is te red at the M i n i s t ry of D e v e l o pm e nt as an i n d u s t r i al user, but in p r a c t i ce im p o r ts a nd expo r ts by p r iv a te persons are p e rm i t t ed free of l i c en s e. Im p o r ts of g o ld co ins a nd of g o ld bars a nd ingo ts w e i g h i ng m o re t h an 12 k i l o g r ams are free of cu s toms d u t y; a ll o ther g o ld im p o r ts are subject to d u ty at v a r y i ng rates. A ll im p o r ts of n o nm o n e t a ry g o ld are subject to c o n s u l ar du t ies r a n g i ng f r om 2 per cent to 3V2 per cent ad v a l o r em. Changes during 1976 January 1. T he p e t r o l e um i n d u s t ry was n a t i o n a l i z e d. April 27. By a r e s o l u t i on of the B o a rd of D i r e c t o rs of the C e n t r al B a nk an advance im p o rt depos it r equ i r e­ ment of 20 per cent was im p o s ed on c red i ts for im p o r ts o ther th an r aw m a t e r i a l s, m ed i c in e s, f o o d, a nd c a p i t al goods. A pril 28. T he sub s idy on wheat for h um an c o n s um p­ t i on was d i s c o n t i n u ed by a n a t i o n al execu t ive dec ree. T he A g r i c u l t u r al M a r k e t i ng C o r p o r a t i on ceased to be re spon s ib le for im p o r ts of th is c omm o d i t y. May 2. F o r e i gn firms in V e n e z u e la no long er needed a u t h o r i z a t i on to c o n t r a ct c red i ts a b r o ad up to 180 day s. S u ch c red i ts h ad to be reg is te red w i th S I E X, a nd S I EX a u t h o r i z a t i on c o n t i n u ed to be r e q u i r ed f or a ll long er t e rm f o r e i gn c r ed i t s. May 6. T he im p o rt l icen se r e q u i r em e nt for wh e at or m i x ed g r a in was e l im i n a t e d. July 1. V e n e z u e la accep ted the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t i­ c le V I I I, Sec t ions 2, 3, a nd 4, of the F u n d 's A r t i c l es of A g r e em e n t. T he exchange rate of the b o l i v ar was un i f i ed at Bs 4 . 2 9 25 per U S $ 1, the ra te at w h i ch the C e n t r al B a nk w o u ld s e ll f o r e i gn exchange to the G o v e r nm e nt a nd c omm e r c i al b a n k s. As a t r a n s i t i o n al mea su re, the rate of Bs 4 . 20 per U S $1 r em a i n ed a p p l i c a b le for the d i s ch a rge of l i a b i l i t i es by f o rm er owne rs or conce s­ s iona r ies in the V e n e z u e l an h y d r o c a r b on a nd i r on o re indu s t r i e s. July 2. T he c e i l i ng of U S $ 25 m i l l i on on the r e c i p r o c al c r e d it ag reement w i th the C e n t r al B a nk of the D o m i n i­ c an R e p u b l ic was r a i s ed to U S $ 40 m i l l i o n. August 7. A r e c i p r o c al c r e d it a r r ang em ent was op en ed w i th the C e n t r al B a nk of B r a z i l. September 1. R e c i p r o c al c r e d it a r rangemen ts we re op en ed w i th the c e n t r al b a n ks of C u ba a nd E c u a d o r. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution V IET NAM (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System V iet N am has two currency areas corresponding to the former No r th and South V iet N am. No par value has been established with the Fund. The rep­ resentative rate for the South Vietnamese dong is SD 2.13087 = S D R 1. On November 30, 1976, the buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were SD 1.85 and SD 1.90, respectively, per US $ 1. Exchange rates for 12 other currencies 1 are determined on the basis of the representative rate for the South V ie t­ namese dong and the exchange rates of these cur­ rencies in terms of the SDR, as published by the Fund on the previous business day. Exchange rates for 13 other currencies 2 are determined on the basis of international foreign exchange market quotations. The branch of the State Bank in Hoch im inh C i ty does not buy certain currencies for which it quotes exchange rates to facilitate conversion for accounting purposes. These are A lger ian dinars, Aus tr ian schillings, Burmese kyats, Dan ish kroner, Egyptian pounds, F inn ish markkaa, Guinean sylis, Indian rupees, M a li francs, Netherlands guilders, and Thai baht. A premium of 25 per cent applies to all inward private transfers and receipts from tourism in Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong K o ng do l­ lars, Japanese yen, Malayasian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. The exchange rate of the No r th Vietnamese dong in terms of the U . S. dollar is determined month by month on the basis of a currency basket whose composition and weights are adjusted to changing circumstances. In setting the exchange rate for the U . S. dollar the V ie t­ namese authorities take into account exchange rate developments of the U . S. dollar in the previous month and make a judgmental forecast for the following month. Exchange rates for the other 23 currencies 3 quoted by the State Bank in Hanoi for the period of one month are based on the daily average exchange rate of the respective currency in terms of the U . S. dollar during the previous month. The State Bank in Hanoi does not buy the following currencies which are, however, quoted to facilitate conversion for accounting purposes: A lger ian dinars, Austrian schillings, Burmese kyats, Danish kroner, Egyptian pounds, F inn ish markkaa, Guinean sylis, Indian rupees, M a li francs, and Th ai baht. 1 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Nether­ lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Algerian dinars, Austrian schillings, Burmese kyats, Danish kroner, Egyptian pounds, Finnish markkaa, Guinean sylis, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Mali francs, Norwegian kroner, Singapore dol­ lars, and Thai baht. 3 Algerian dinars, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Danish kroner, Egyptian pounds, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Guinean sylis, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Mali francs, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. 494 A premium of 50 per cent applies to a ll inward private transfers and receipts from tourism in Aus tra l ian dollars, deutsche mark, F rench francs, Hong K o ng dollars, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. Trade transactions with C M EA countries,4 Albania, the People's Republic of Ch ina, and N o r th Ko rea are settled in "bilateral rubles" at an exchange rate of rub 1 = ND 3.27. Nontrade transactions w i th these countries take place at exchange rates specified in the respective bilateral payments agreements. The exchange rate between the N o r th Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong is ND 1 = SD 0.80. The only transactions permitted between the two regions are officially authorized trade and travel. Administration of Control V iet N am does not yet have a common exchange control law. A ll exchange and trade regulations apply­ ing in the South before M ay 1975 have been repudiated and new legislation similar to that prevailing in the No r th has been progressively introduced. Exchange control is administered by the State Bank in Hanoi for the No r th and its branch office in Hoch im inh C i ty for the South. A ll foreign trade is a state monopoly and is administered by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried out by specialized state import-export corporations. Import and export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade upon application by the import-export corporation carrying out the transaction are granted only for imports and exports contained in the foreign trade plan. A ll foreign exchange transactions are carried out by the Foreign Trade Bank, wh ich is a branch of the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments for trade transactions w i th some countries 5 w i th which V iet N am has bilateral payments agreements are made in "bilateral rubles." Nontrade transactions with these countries and other countries 6 wjhyb_which V iet N am has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresident accounts in either foreign currencies or in No r th or South Vietnamese currencies. Nonresidents can freely * Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 5 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. « Egypt, Guinea, India, and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currencies which have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An annual import and export plan is drawn up annually for the entire country based on import needs and export possibilities. Import and export transactions are carried out by specialized state import-export cor­ porations on the basis of licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Fore ign Trade. A ll payments for trade transactions need the authorization of the State Bank and are made through the Foreign Trade Bank. Export receipts are normally channeled through the Foreign Trade Bank and any other receipts from foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Imports and exports of precious metals, precious stones, and pearls need the permission of the State Bank. Invisibles A ll transactions in invisibles require individual author­ ization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. A ll travel abroad needs ind iv idual authorization and is presently limited to official business for which a ll foreign exchange expenses are covered. (Travel between the No r th and South presently needs official approval. A minimum amount of ND 200 a person can be exchanged V I ET N AM and a maximum is set by the State Bank on a case-by- case basis.) Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had left the country before A p r il 1975 can receive foreign exchange allocations the amount of which is determined by the State Bank for each individual case. Receipts from transactions in invisibles have to be surrendered to the State Bank w i th in seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currencies and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currencies need the special permission of the State Bank. Capital Foreign investment in the No r th has been prohibited since 1954. A ll matters concerning past foreign invest­ ment in the South w i ll be settled in bilateral negotiations. A foreign investment law is now in its final drafting stage allowing up to 49 per cent foreign ownership which may rise to 100 per cent in some sectors. Gold On ly the State Bank has authority to purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1976 No significant changes took place. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WE STERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Western Samoa Ta la has been established with the Fund. A central rate of WS$1 = US$1.67736 was established in 1973. The inter­ vention currency is the U . S. dollar, and Western Samoa avails itself of wider margins. The external value of the tala is determined daily on the basis of the basket of currencies used by New Zealand. Since Decem­ ber 20, 1976 the rate for the New Zealand dollar has been WS$0.76 = $ NZ 1. Exchange rates for other cur­ rencies are determined on the basis of their rates against the New Zealand dollar. On December 31, 1976 the buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were WS$0.7909 and WS$0.8090, respectively per U S $ 1. Administration of Control The overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the authority for the daily administration of the exchange controls and the exchange allocation system rests w i th the Minister of Finance, who is the chairman of the Board. The latter may delegate his approval authority to the F inanc ial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary D iv i s ion of the Treasury and to authorized banks. A ll payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. The M in is t ry, however, has delegated to the Bank of West­ ern Samoa, the only authorized bank, authority to approve certain payments up to any amount and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi­ dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from a ll sources for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual allo­ cation of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a semi­ annual basis, wh ich may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except auto­ mobiles.1 The allocations are made by the M in i s t ry of 1 Rice, flour, sugar, milk products, canned fish, mutton flaps, and spare parts for engines may be imported freely outside the allocation system. During 1976 imports of automobiles, except those by the Government and by nonresidents using their own foreign exchange holdings, were limited to 15 a month. 496 Finance and communicated to the Bank of Western Samoa; the latter automatically provides the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submis­ sion of documentary evidence. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge an advance deposit of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con­ tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto­ matically by the Bank of Western Samoa up to any amount or within limits determined by the M in is try of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for all other invisibles require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Remittances in respect of study abroad are freely authorized. The M in is t ry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pen­ sions, rents, interests, and dividends by persons perma­ nently resident overseas. Residents traveling to Amer ican Samoa, whether for business or private pur­ poses, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$200 a person a quarter; an additional allowance of US$50 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other countries is equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000 a year. The M in i s t ry of Finance grants supplementary allocations when evidence of genuine need is provided. Resident travelers may take out for­ eign banknotes as part of their foreign currency allow­ ance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly a ll exports require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agr icu l ture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Cop ra exports are controlled by the Copra Board, cocoa exports by the Cocoa Board, and banana exports by the Banana Board. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa within a reasonable time after shipment. Where exceptional circumstances exist, the M in i s t ry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Resident travelers must on return sell to the Bank a ll foreign currency brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital A ll outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The Bank of West­ ern Samoa approves transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each family group. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive A ct N o. 27 /1965, as amended in 1969, makes provision for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Bo th the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the M in is ter of Finance; such approval is normally granted. W E S T E RN S AM OA Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold in any form. Changes during 1976 January. The foreign exchange allocations for 1976 for importers came into effect. The number of motor vehicles permitted to be imported by private persons and firms other than nonresidents using foreign exchange brought in from abroad was raised from 12 to 15 a month. March. Exchange allocations for travel were increased. September. The importation of spare parts for engines and of mutton flaps was permitted outside the annual foreign exchange allocation system. November 30. The exchange rate for the New Zealand dollar was changed from US$0 .80 = $NZ 1 (applicable since October 27, 1975) to WS$0.7440 = $NZ 1. Exchange rates for other currencies con­ tinued to be determined on the basis of the relationship between the New Zealand dollar and the currencies concerned. December 20. The exchange rate for the New Zealand dollar was changed to WS$0.76 = $ NZ 1. Exchange rates for other currencies continued to be determined on the basis of the relationship between the currencies concerned. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y EM EN ARAB REPUBL IC (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established. A ll trans­ actions take place in a free market at an exchange rate which in principle is a fluctuating one but since February 1973 has remained unchanged. On December 31, 1976 the rate for the U.S. dollar was YR1 1 = US$0.22. Exchange rates for other currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of London cross rates against the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy who has the authority, acting in consultation with the President of the Council of Ministers, to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports. Exchange control over transactions in invisibles is super­ vised by the Central Bank. The only commercial banks and authorized dealers are the Yemen Bank for Recon­ struction and Development and branches of seven foreign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.1 Settlements are usually made in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of petro­ leum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. A ll other imports require import licenses. These are generally issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain com­ modities requires the permission of certain government agencies. The importation of certain textiles requires the approval of the Sanaa textile factory. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the local banks or the free market; a minimum margin deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. 1 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur­ poses only, all exports require registration forms, which are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds; these may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers. Both domestic and foreign investment are regulated by Law No. 18 of 1975. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or of their capital. Gold Two commemorative gold coins of YRls 20 and YRls 30 have been issued, which do not circulate in the Yemen Arab Republic. By virtue of Ministerial Decree No. 21/1973 residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1976 January 21. Decree No. 6/1976 regulated the agencies and branches of foreign companies and com­ mercial firms. March 10. The suspension of the issue of licenses for imports from Japan was terminated. August 27. For customs valuation purposes, prices in foreign currencies henceforth were first converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of free market rates; the U.S. dollar amounts then were converted into Yemen rials at a fixed rate of US$1 = YRls 5.5. August 27. The practice of collecting certain import duties in kind, previously applied to certain foodstuffs, was discontinued. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE 'S DEMOCRAT IC REPUBL IC OF Y EM EN (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni D ina r, which is issued by the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value for the Yemeni dinar has been established w i th the Fund. Since February 1973, the central rate has been YD 1 = US$2.89523 or US$1 = YD 0.345395. On December 31, 1976, the Na t ional Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Yemen's General Department for Exchange Con t rol through the Foreign Exchange C om­ mittee, wh ich has delegated certain powers to the D i rec­ tor of Exchange Con t ro l, a member of the Committee. The M in i s t ry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the D irec tor of Exchange Con t ro l. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Director of Exchange C o n t r o l ); at present the only commercial bank and authorized dealer is the Na t ional Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, and for payments by the o il refinery, a ll payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the D irec tor of Exchange Con t ro l. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, be low). The o il refinery is treated as a resident entity but in its operations generally is not affected by the existing exchange and trade controls. Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers in accordance with prescription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the Un i ted K ingdom. A ll payments to Israel and Rhodesia are pro­ hibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currenc ies1 and surrendered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held b> certain persons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa iti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Nether­ lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. Yemen. External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited w i th proceeds from convertible foreign cur­ rency transferred from abroad, w i th bank interest pay­ able on such accounts, and w i th balances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts cannot be credited with payments in the form of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en try), or w i th locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain cases specified by the l aw ). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for trans­ fers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from Nonresident Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Con t rol Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any pay­ ment to a nonresident to a Blocked Accoun t. Except with the Committee's prior approval, B locked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work­ ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments W i th minor exceptions, a ll imports other than those of the o il refinery require individual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen A r ab Republic are exempt from the licensing requirements. Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. An import program is drawn up annually. In addition, importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the M in is t ry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Con t ro l; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. A Trade Counc il is in charge of the trading activities of the nationalized companies. The Na t ional Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking o i l, tea, and cigarettes. The Na t ional Import Company L t d. imports certain consumer goods not mentioned in Law N o. 37 of 1969. The Na t ional Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all govern­ ment requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones w i th in the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P EO P L E 'S D E M O C R A T IC R E P U B L IC OF Y E M EN Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Con t ro l. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under t en ) .2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the applica­ tion. Foreign employees of approved enterprises and the o il refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes); other for­ eign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. A ll insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the Na t ional Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equiva­ lent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Furthermore, non­ residents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are exempt from licenses. A ll exports to Israel and Rho­ desia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen A rab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Com­ mittee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen A r ab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll claims of residents for services rendered to non­ residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Accoun t) when due and surrendered to authorized dealers. However, Yemeni nationals working abroad are allowed to establish non­ resident foreign currency accounts. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Dj ibout i, Eth iop ia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi A r a b i a, Somalia, Yemen A r ab Republic, and the Gu lf states. Travelers to the Yemen A r ab Republic may alternatively take out up to YR ls 1,000 in Yemen rials. Capital V i r tua l ly a ll capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their l iqu id funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Pro­ motion of Industrial Investment (Law N o. 23 of M ay 14, 1971) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. A ll remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms under Law N o. 23 also are subject to the Exchange Con t rol Law (Law N o. 16) and in any one year should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold On ly the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bu l l ion. Licensed gold­ smiths may purchase, ho ld, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numis­ matic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign T rade ); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Travelers may bring in or take out reasonable amounts of gold, in the form of ornaments only (not exceeding YD 100 in value for departing travelers). Imports and exports of gold by travelers are subject only to customs con­ tro l, but if incoming nonresident travelers wish to sell any gold coins or bu l l ion, they must sell them to an authorized dealer. Changes during 1976 December 9. A tax of 50 per cent was imposed on imports of Yemeni dinars in excess of YD 5. 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0433330 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav D ina r. Since July 12, 1973 the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins and therefore a ll transactions, except for receipts and payments effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1976 were D in 18.2037 and D in 18.2583, respectively, per US$1. The currencies dealt in are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster­ ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Counc il prescribes the general pro­ visions in respect of foreign trade and exchange trans­ actions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade w i th payments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia administer the ex­ change controls. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. A ll foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the Na t ional Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. F u l ly authorized banks, which must have a minimum credit fund of D in 500 m i l l ion and deposits of at least D in 1,000 m i l l ion, may engage in a ll foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( in­ cluding the granting of guarantees). L im i ted authorized banks, which must have a minimum credit fund amount­ ing to D in 100 m i l l ion and deposits of at least D in 200 m i l l ion, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugos lav ia only; they may neither keep foreign ex­ change accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Au thor ized exchange offices may only deal in foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to a ll commercial and savings banks, hotels, and specifically authorized tourist agencies. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain condi­ tions, including the provision of minimum working capital for trade enterprises, are fulfilled. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organiza­ tions which export and /or import on their own behalf. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo­ slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral accounts as follows: (1) in U . S. dollars w i th A lban ia, B r a z i l, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo­ cratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Mongo l ia, and the U .S .S .R .; and (2) in pounds sterling with V iet N am. Certain settlements with Bangladesh, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. A degree of multilateralization of payments is provided under the special payments arrangement with Ghana. For purposes of import and export licensing and the operation of nonresident accounts, Ghana is considered to belong to the convertible area. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Fo r­ eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in dinars with fully authorized banks in Yugoslavia. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with any authorized bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident jur id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.1 Balances on these accounts may be used for a ll payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con­ vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the account-holding bank being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign 1 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA jur id ical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo­ slavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for permitted payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account hold­ er's country of domicile. Nonresident jur id ical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance w i th the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his close family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign jur id ical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties or from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accordance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con­ vertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the currency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid in the foreign currency deposited. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate family; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, be low). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of the currencies of certain Eastern European countries 2 and Mongo l ia, the accounts are denominated in dollars of account, and for V iet N am in pounds sterling of account; for other bilateral currencies the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfers to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco­ nomic organizations registered as participating in foreign 2 Albania, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. 502 trade. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial producers are registered. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oils, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. F or most commodities import licenses are not required. A ll commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in four categories, largely in accordance w i th the manner in which exchange is made available: LB — l ibe ra l ized goods; GDK — g o o ds imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK —goods sub­ ject to individual quotas ( RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d inars); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts, but they also include some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and a ll other goods not specifically included in the G D K, R K, D K, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. Exchange for payments for LB imports from the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appro­ priate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The G DK list comprises raw materials, other repro­ duction materials, most capital equipment, and most of those consumer goods not liberalized under the LB regime. Such imports can be made under several dif­ ferent procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows: each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to pur­ chase any such goods listed as G D K. Payment for imports of capital goods on the G DK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a consider­ able portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. Eco­ nomic organizations may acquire foreign exchange at a predetermined proportion of their annual depreciation allowance, a ratio that varies from 10 to 100 per cent according to the economic sector involved. F or consumer goods, trading enterprises agree within the Chamber of Economy on the distribution of G DK quotas among themselves; if the enterprises are unable to agree among themselves on a G DK allocation, the Federal Secretariat for Market and Prices w i ll allocate this quota among ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution them. A part of the G DK quotas is reserved for imports from developing countries. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list D K ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also machine tools and certain plastics, are subject to quotas estab­ lished for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities ( R K) or in dinars ( D K ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.3 Add i t ional quotas may be allocated during the year if the enterprise to wh ich the quota is allocated undertakes to increase exports. Exchange is provided automatically for payments for imports of goods subject to the RK and DK regime, but only up to a predetermined quantity or amount for each item. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammunition, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, railroad ro l l ing stock, aircraft, natural gas, and bitumen. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. These licenses automatically entitle an enterprise to purchase the requisite foreign exchange. F or certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1976 these goods were 65 LB items, 5 RK items, 2 DK items, and 1 D item. F or a ll items concerned, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely and at any time import machinery for small farms or equipment for handicraft production, up to D in 80,000 a shipment. A l s o, Yugoslavs returning from work abroad and non­ residents residing in Yugoslavia for more than three months may import goods up to D in 80,000 intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own house­ ho ld, provided such goods were paid for from the sav­ ings from their foreign earnings; such savings may be 3 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed on among economic organizations within the Chamber of Economy on the basis of resources and requirements taking into account projected growth rates and the proportions of the balance of payments. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Fore ign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribu­ tion. Imports of coffee, wheat, corn, rice, and sugar for final con­ sumption are administered by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. The import of coffee is contingent upon Yugoslav exports to the supplying country. Y U G O S L A V IA held abroad or in foreign exchange accounts with Yugo­ slav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together w i th mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that importation is effected through a registered enterprise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for perma­ nent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import goods intended for their household. How­ ever, if the value of the goods exceeds D in 5,000, these goods are usually handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation transactions are authorized only in exceptional circumstances. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 5 per cent tax equalization charge 4 are payable on a ll commodities not exempt from customs duty. In addi­ tion, an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for a ll dutiable com­ modities, with the exception that the surcharge is levied at a reduced rate of 7-9 per cent for capital equipment for the development of basic primary product industries, for some reproduction materials, and for certain essen­ t ial items such as hides. Many agricultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans­ actions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia main­ tains bilateral payments arrangements, then such pay­ ments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done on a reciprocal basis. Au tho­ rized banks may sell foreign currency up to the equiva­ lent of D in 1,000 for remittances for court and other * Increased to 6 per cent with effect from January 1, 1977. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y U G O S L A V IA fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The Na t ional Bank may authorize the sale of any amount of foreign exchange for the foregoing and for unspeci­ fied purposes when justified in light of the circumstances. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fuel, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in interna­ tional freight and passenger transportation are liberalized. There is no basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, travel agencies may sell organized tours abroad against payment in dinars up to an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of their individual retention quotas. The Na t ional Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, from specific annual allocations). Not more than D in 1,500 in domestic currency, in denominations of D in 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain livestock) and certain other mate­ rials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("accor­ dance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for a ll commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approval). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The sur­ render of these proceeds is not required. The full export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is 504 referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely or used for certain payments abroad, but cannot earn interest. The permitted reten­ tion rate is 20 per cent for a ll export earnings from goods and services, with the exception that a rate of 45 per cent applies to tourist organizations and a rate of 100 per cent applies to foreign exchange earnings of Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad and to Yugoslav enterprises operating under long-term cooperation agree­ ments with foreign companies. (Enterprises with long- term cooperation agreements may in any case import up to the value of their production which is a result of that cooperation.) In some instances (services rendered to foreign tourists and sales of newly mined go ld ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Producing enterprises selling specified consumer goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency may retain 20 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the c la im is payable. The performance of construction and engineering ser­ vices in payments agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for For­ eign Trade. Receipts from services are eligible for retention quotas; the quota for hotels and tourist agen­ cies is 45 per cent. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those w i th which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may ho ld interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Au thor ized trade organizations may sell manufac­ tured goods to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia against payment in foreign exchange at a discount freely estab­ lished by the trade organizations themselves. This dis­ count is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Not more than D in 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of D in 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fully authorized banks and economic organizations, with the exceptions that no consumer goods may be imported on deferred payment terms and that no foreign financial credits may be taken up whose repayment terms include a grace period of less than two years.5 A ll other inward or outward transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the Na t ional Banks of the republics. Loans must ordinarily be repaid with foreign exchange that is either obtained by the economic organization concerned as export reten­ tion quotas and foreign exchange amortization (depre­ ciation) allocations or acquired from banks according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime. Credits in the former category are subject to prior dinar deposit requirements; the deposits are noninterest bearing and are held with the Na t ional Banks of the republics until full repayment of the foreign credits. F or financial credits and foreign exchange deposits received by business banks for the account of non­ residents, the five basic rates of deposit introduced in A p r il 1972 range from 1 per cent for maturities over ten years to 40 per cent for maturities of less than two years. However, as a temporary measure beginning in mid-December 1972, a dinar deposit of 75 per cent was required for a ll financial credits and foreign exchange deposits by nonresidents regardless of maturity. F or credits for the importation of capital goods, the deposit rates at the end of 1976 were 20 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years; 10 per cent for credits of between three and five years; and 1 per cent for credits with a maturity of over five years. However, if the capital goods were imported for investments in under­ developed regions of Yugoslavia, the latter deposit rates were 10 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years and 1 per cent for credits w i th a longer maturity and for a ll credits for the import of specially produced capital equipment. Certain foreign credits are specifically exempted from the foregoing deposit requirements; these include credits from specified international financial organizations, credits contracted for or on behalf of the Federal Gov­ ernment or the Na t ional Bank, and credits contracted for the importation of equipment intended for high- priority sectors and activities as defined by Decisions of the Federal Executive Coun c i l. Foreign credits repayable with foreign exchange acquired according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime are trade credits for raw materials 5 When enterprises issue bonds abroad, they may use 80 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds for the import of equipment and spare parts for their own needs. Y U G O S L A V IA and intermediate goods, usually with a maturity of up to 360 days. These are exempt from deposit require­ ments. As an exception, if the goods imported on credit are under the LB regime, 25 per cent must normally be deposited with the Na t ional Banks of the republics or the autonomous provinces as a downpayment and the remaining 75 per cent is payable at maturity. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations but only through joint ventures; such for­ eign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organiza­ tion's capital. Profit transfers abroad may be financed from the retention quota and, in addition, profit trans­ fers are permitted up to one third of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legisla­ tion would be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days; however, when repatriated the profits are gov­ erned by the regulations for retention quotas. Residents are obliged to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, to surrender a ll foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Outward capital transfers by residents who are physi­ cal persons are not approved. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed under special conditions, by the Federal Secre­ tariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance, to export the necessary capital. A l s o, a D e c i­ sion of the Federal Executive Counc il of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the Un i ted States, provided that the remittance is requested w i th in three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold The Na t ional Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration and, for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugos lav ia. Residents who are private persons may ho ld gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the Na t ional Bank or to any authorized bank, and they may freely ho ld, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been regis­ tered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the G DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au thor ized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y U G O S L A V IA National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the rate of Din 17 per U.S. dollar to a price of US$42.22 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota of 20 per cent in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1976 January 1. G DK quotas for the first half of 1976 were set at 40 per cent of total allocations for 1975. January 1. A minimum tariff of 5 per cent ad valorem was applied to all imports unless GATT-bound. Some other tariff rates were reduced pending a full revision of the tariff system later in 1976. January 1. Duty was reduced by between 20 and 50 per cent on imports of specified equipment for oil and gas pipelines, mineral processing, iron and steel, and chemical and some other industries. January 1. Following the expiry of the bilateral pay­ ments agreement, settlements with Algeria were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The special list of 413 items whose import by enterprises required ad hoc permission by the Sec­ retariat for Foreign Trade was abolished. January 1. The 3 per cent tax equalization charge on imports was increased to 5 per cent. January 1. The import surcharge was extended until December 31, 1976. The reduced rate was increased from 5 per cent to a range of 7-9 per cent. January 1. Regulations were introduced allowing authorized banks to trade in "currencies significant for maintaining liquidity for international payments" on foreign markets. Such transactions may not be made against Yugoslav dinars and purchases may only be made for the settlement of obligations. January 24. Imports of foodstuffs on credit by the Federal Administration for Reserves of Industrial Prod­ ucts and the Federal Administration for Reserves of Food Products were freed from the deposit requirement if destined for federal reserves. February 24. A new customs law was adopted, to come into force on September 1, 1976. February 28. Regulations were introduced allowing foreign exchange for the payment of interest and charges on import credits utilized over a period longer than one year to be charged against the enterprise's foreign exchange entitlement for the year of utilization, rather than against that of the year of registration of the credit. March 4. The bilateral payments agreement with Afghanistan was terminated. March 5. A supplementary G DK quota of Din 100 million was allocated to enterprises for the import 506 of raw materials, semimanufactures, and spare parts for current repairs in the first half of 1976. March 6. The Republics of Croatia and Montenegro became eligible for a special foreign exchange quota equal to up to 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings from payments by foreign fishing vessels for fishing rights along the Yugoslav coast. The foreign exchange may be used to import equipment not produced in Yugoslavia which will promote the development of the Yugoslav fishing industry. March 27. The foreign exchange quota for 1976 of the republics and autonomous provinces from foreign exchange deposits made by workers employed abroad and emigrants in 1975 was fixed at Din 1,106 million and was distributed to the republics. March 27. A special G DK quota of Din 4.1 million was allocated for the import of semimanufactures and spare parts for the production of teleprinters and tele­ vision equipment in accordance with an agreement with Sri Lanka. April 2. Exports of acyclical amides and fertilizers, hitherto liberalized, were made subject to approval. April 3. The 1976 import quota (RK) for the cate­ gory "other cereals" was raised from 500,000 tons to 600,000 tons. April 17. A levy of Din 25.75 a kilogram was placed on imports of butter. April 24. Imports of floating harbors for ship repairs were made subject to the temporary import surcharge at a reduced rate of 5 per cent. At the same time, such imports were freed from customs duties. May 1. Imports of electricity were made subject to the temporary import surcharge at the reduced rate of 5 per cent. At the same time, such imports were freed from customs duties. May 8. Supplementary G DK quotas were allocated to construction organizations (Din 18 million) and to coal mines (Din 40 million). May 8. Reduced customs tariffs were introduced for the remainder of 1976 on imports of parts for the manu­ facture of automobiles. May 21. The G DK quota for the import of con­ sumer goods in 1976 was fixed at Din 636.4 million. Of this sum, Din 51.6 million was set aside for imports of consumer goods from developing countries. June 19. Imports of cork and cork products were made subject to the issuing of an "accordance." June 26. Peru was added to the list of beneficiaries of the Yugoslav list of tariff concessions under the protocol relating to trade negotiations among develop­ ing countries. July 10. A supplementary G DK import quota of Din 10 million for 1976 was provided for enterprises supplying urban transport services. July 17. Supplementary G DK import quotas of Din 6.5 million and Din 3.2 million were provided for enterprises engaged in automobile repair and office maintenance, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 24. Yugoslav and foreign travelers leaving Yugo­ slavia were allowed to take out up to D in 1,500 in Yugoslav currency in notes of D in 100 or less. July 24. The G DK quotas for the import of raw materials, reproduction materials, and spare parts for current repairs for 1976 as a whole were set at 100 per cent of the 1975 level. August 7. Enterprises allocated a G DK quota on M a r ch 5 of D in 100 m i l l ion during the first half of 1976 were allocated a quota of D in 300 m i l l ion for 1976 as a whole. September 1. A new customs law came into effect replacing the law of 1973. September 1. Duties were reduced on a number of imports from developing countries. September 1. Imports of specific medical equipment were freed from customs duties. September 18. Customs duties on imports of specific equipment for the production of citric and cinnamic acids, complex fertilizers, and polystyrol were reduced. September 25. Customs duties on imports of specific equipment used in the construction of o il pipelines, polyurethane foam, and veneers were reduced. October 1. Exports of black onions, peas, and apples, hitherto on the LB list, were placed on the D list. October 9. A special tax of D in 2 a kilogram was introduced on imports of salt. October 23. Supplementary G DK quotas for the import of raw materials, other reproduction materials, Y U G O S L A V IA and spare parts for current repairs in 1976 were opened for the electricity industry ( D in 30 m i l l i o n ), the bu i ld­ ing materials industry ( D in 10 m i l l i o n ), and producers of spherical sliding and cy l indr ical bearings. November 20. G DK quotas for the import of raw materials, reproduction materials, and spare parts for current repairs in 1977 were set at 100 per cent of the 1976 level. November 20. An additional G DK quota of D in 25 m i l l ion was allocated for the import of spare parts for the repair of agricultural machines, tractors, and equipment. December 10. Regulations governing the contracting of credits abroad and the acceptance of foreign deposits by banks were amended. The new regulations provided that for credits connected with joint ventures a noninterest-bearing dinar deposit of 75 per cent of the value of the credit be placed w i th the Na t ional Banks of the republics for a specified period. A number of exceptions were provided to this deposit requirement, in particular in those cases when the amount of foreign currency credit connected with a joint venture was not more than twice the amount of domestic credit involved, when the project was in a priority branch as specified in the Resolution on the Common Po l icy of Economic and Social Development of Yugoslavia in 1976, or was situated in a less developed region of Yugoslavia. December 18. Imports of freighters were made sub­ ject to a reduced rate of import surcharge of 7 per cent. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Zaire. A central rate of Z 1 = SDR 1 has been established, and Zaire avails itself of wider margins. The interven­ tion currency is the U . S. dollar. The Bank of Zaire (the central bank) determines the buying and selling rates of the zaire for the U . S. dollar on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the U . S. do l lar-SDR rate. The exchange rates between the zaire and other currencies are quoted on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations, if available, or on the basis of their cross rates with the U .S. dollar. Forward exchange transactions are pro­ hibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to permit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Za i re .1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. However, certain settlements with Burund i, Rwanda, and Uganda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. in Zaires may generally be Nonresident Accounts debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the pro­ ceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Resident and Nonresident Foreign Cu r­ rency Accounts, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Za i r ian nationals require special authorization from the central bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited in accordance with C i rcu lar N o. 131 2 and debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any pay­ ments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammunition, narcotics, and jukeboxes. The importation of specified luxury items (including certain automobiles, jewelry, and furniture) is prohibited for economic reasons. Import licenses submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval are required for most commodities other than certain priority items (mainly foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare parts). F or most goods subject to license the importer must obtain either a discount of 6 per cent from the exporter's list price or a credit of at least 180 days after shipment, while for specified priority items the importer must obtain a discount of 3 per cent or a credit of 90 days. Those imports which are not subject to import license approved by the central bank are subject to import declarations, which do not require the approval of the central bank. The central bank has issued a general import and payments license which for such goods guarantees the availability of foreign exchange11 when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declaration w i th his bank following the actual placing of the order and provided that invoice price and quality have been verified and found accept­ able by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zairois de Controle. Such verification is also required for all other imports. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made out at authorized banks, which forward the applications to the central bank after certification. After approval of the appli­ cation by the central bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the intermediary authorized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which validation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is in principle made available for all licensed imports, the validated license constituting at the same time an exchange license; for payments purposes, the license 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, C FA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars. 2 Conversion of foreign currency at the official rate, transfer from another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized payments by residents to nonresidents. 3 Th is guarantee has been temporarily suspended. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remains va l id as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. F or certain priority imports covered by trade credits of 60 days or more the Bank of Zaire is prepared to guarantee the provision of foreign exchange when the payment falls due. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the Belgian food aid program, the U . S. import support program, and the agricultural aid program must be deposited within 120 to 180 days after their shipment. A ll imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem and a turnover tax of 9 per cent. Fu r­ thermore, commercial banks are instructed to require importers to deposit 20, 25, 50, or 80 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports (varying according to the nature of the goods), before opening bank guarantees {credits de signature) in their favor. Imports of specified priority items are exempted from the deposit requirement when the importation is effected by specified local companies. In addition, most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to a temporary import surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Po l icy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the central bank. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the central bank; the approval authority for other current payments has been delegated to the authorized banks. The central bank w i ll not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or for insurance on imports except for imports payable on arrival, and pro­ vided that the supplier has arranged the insurance. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Cen­ tral West A f r i ca Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on ship­ ments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice, and in the case of exports, banks are not authorized to validate export declarations unless these are marked accordingly. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports pay­ able upon arr iva l. Ma r i t ime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Ma r i t ime Zai'roise. Transfers abroad of rents, profits, and dividends are suspended, while transfers of salaries of foreign nationals, and cer­ tain other current payments, are authorized on the basis of appropriate documentation. Transfers of royalties require the prior approval of the Service de la Propriete Industrielle. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency. Zai'rian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the duration of the journey, up to the equivalent in zaires of BF 30,000 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are Z A I RE subject to individual approval by the central bank. The export of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign means of payment declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports not covered by general license require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations, in which exporters under­ take to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally va l id for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral products exported by the Generate des Carrieres et Mines du Zaire (G ECAM IN E S), a provisional payment of a variable portion of the shipment's estimated value has to be received and surrendered within 8 days after shipment. F or diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds from coffee must be surrendered within 45 days after shipment, which must take place w i th in a period of three months from the signing of the sales contract. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated w i th in three months of valida­ tion. M i n im um export prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, and certain other commodities. A ll exports are subject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad valorem, and a ll commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered. The import of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordinance- Law N o. 69-032 of June 26, 1969 as amended by Law N o. 74-004 of 1974) is guaranteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. W i th minor excep­ tions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by resi­ dents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by execu­ tive ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the autho­ rized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro­ ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Z A I RE purchase, ho ld, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the per­ sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank. Producers are not required to sell their production to the central bank. A ll newly produced gold is exported, w i th the exception of small quantities used domestically for the manufacture of jewelry. Changes during 1976 January 16. It was announced that the Bank of Zaire would be prepared to guarantee the provision of foreign exchange for the payment of maritime freight charges payable against documentary credits 60 days or more from the date of shipment, while for settlement of mari­ time freight payable less than 60 days after shipment the intervening bank would be responsible for providing its own foreign exchange. Mar i t ime freight charges on goods transported entirely by the Compagnie Mar i t ime Zai'roise could be settled in zaires (Letter N o. 1983). January 28. It was announced that Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may henceforth be debited by com­ mercial banks for delinquent taxes assessed against holders of such accounts without the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire (Letter N o. 2302 ). February 13. Previous regulations reserving the importation of dry batteries exclusively to specified importers were revoked; however, import licenses for this item submitted for the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire were to be accompanied by a certificate of nonavailability issued by ESB-Za ire (Letter N o. 2463). March 12. Zaire established a new central rate of Z 1 = SDR 1 and pegged the zaire to the SDR. Zaire continued to avail itself of wider margins. Previously the central rate had been Z 1 = US$2 and the zaire had been pegged to the U . S. dollar. March 17. The Bank of Zaire issued new instructions governing payments for merchandise imports, as fo l­ lows: (1) It was announced that while the import regime would be liberalized progressively, importation of cer­ tain luxury items (automobiles with large engines, jewelry, and furniture) remained prohibited. (2) The banks were authorized to register and validate all import declarations for imports of foodstuffs, phar­ maceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare parts, and the system of reserving importation of foodstuffs and pharmaceutical products for certain importers was revoked. (3) Import licenses for all items other than those specified in (1) and (2) continued to require the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire, but it was announced that, apart from imports restricted for eco­ nomic reasons (viz., wheat flour, sugar, beer, mineral water, soft drinks, portland cement, tires and tubes, electric batteries, and iron products), the prior approval requirement would serve only for statistical purposes and would not be the occasion for applying administra­ tive restraints. (4) The system of Bank of Zaire guar­ 510 antees to provide foreign exchange on due dates of payment for certain priority imports was revoked, although banks were asked to continue to report quar­ terly to the Bank of Za ire the amount of payments falling due on imports of foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare parts. (5) The ceil­ ings on documentary sight credits payable upon ship­ ment for commodities subject to license, and the require­ ments relating to the m in imum period of trade credits to be obtained by importers of other goods subject to license, were retained unchanged from the instructions issued in Letter N o. 6821 of January 29, 1975. It was also announced that the Bank of Zaire would assume the exchange losses resulting from the exchange rate depreciation of M a r ch 12 solely for authorized mer­ chandise and invisible payments abroad that had fallen due prior to that date and for which the za ir ian counter­ part had been lodged w i th the commercial banks, but were not effected prior to M a r ch 12 because of the unavailability of foreign exchange. As regards payments for invisibles, it was announced that: (1) The guidelines announced in Letter N o. 6821 of January 29, 1975 con­ tinued in force. (2) Transfers abroad of salaries of expatriate personnel were restricted to the amounts actually transferred abroad for each individual in 1975, unless these ceilings were individually adjusted for 1976. (3) The maximum amount of foreign exchange Zairian nationals traveling abroad could buy was changed from the equivalent of Z 400 a trip to the equivalent in zaires of BF 30,000 a trip (Letter N o. 7692 ). March 25. Owing to delays in the arrival of certain imports under a program undertaken prior to M a r ch 12 to increase the availability of essential goods, it was announced that payments for such imports were autho­ rized at the previous exchange rate of Z 1 = US$2 (Letter N o. 3035). April 1. The monopoly of the Na t ional Coffee Office ( O N C) over the exportation of coffee was revoked, and commercial banks were henceforth authorized to vali­ date Mod el E on the basis of minimum prices estab­ lished by the O NC (Letter N o. 3107). April 1. Further instructions were issued concerning payments and transfers abroad. It was specified that licenses for the importation of alcoholic beverages con­ tinued to require the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire, and that import license validations by the autho­ rized banks for dried and salted colin fish had to be based on prices established by the Bank of Zaire. The system of Bank of Zaire guarantees to provide foreign exchange on due dates of payment for certain priority imports was reinstated on an interim basis (Letter N o. 7724). April 5. The Bank of Zaire announced that for admin­ istrative convenience import licenses requiring its prior approval would henceforth be accepted at the Bank only between the first and the twenty-fifth of each month (Letter N o. 3140). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 29. Further instructions were issued concerning payments and transfers abroad. It was specified that items whose importation was restricted for economic reasons would include matches, earthenware, synthetic textiles, haberdashery articles, clothing and textile arti­ cles, and footwear (Letter N o. 3406 ). May 12. The Bank of Zaire instructed commercial banks to require importers to deposit specified minimum proportions of the c.i.f. value of imports before opening bank guarantees {credits de signature) in their clients' favor. The minimum deposit required was 50 per cent for imports of foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals, and 80 per cent for a ll other imports, except raw materials and industrial spare parts, which were exempt. The deposits were required to be made before import declarations could be registered by the authorized banks or approval of import licenses could be obtained from the Bank of Zaire, and banks were forbidden to extend credit to importers to enable them to meet the import deposit requirement (Letters Nos. 7869 and 7978 ). May 24. Banks were henceforth required to credit 10 per cent of a ll export receipts to a special Bank of Zaire account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk (Letter N o. 7857 ). June 28. It was announced that henceforth the Bank of Zaire would establish the minimum prices (mercu- riales) for exports of coffee. Exporters were forbidden to enter into any contract for forward delivery of coffee exceeding three months without the prior approval of the Bank of Za ire. Export prices would be established every 15 days or more frequently if warranted by mar­ ket developments, and surrender of export proceeds would be in relation to the established prices. The O NC would continue to exercise surveillance over the quality of coffee (Letter N o. 7980 ). July 17. It was stipulated that henceforth no pay­ ments for imports could be effected at the time of ship­ ment unless the importer obtained a discount of 6 per cent from the exporter's f.o.b. list price (Letter N o. 8010). July 19. The advance import deposit requirement was relaxed for imports of specified foodstuffs effected by specified local companies until December 31. The relaxa­ tion applied to 20 specified foodstuffs (including fresh fish, certain canned meats, cereals, milk preparations, and oils) for which the minimum deposit required was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent, and to certain Z A I RE fresh meats and dried and salted fish and pilchards, which were exempted from the deposit requirement (Letter N o. 8014). July 21. It was stipulated that spare parts imported by specified transport companies, as well as industrial raw materials imported by other than the end-user, were not included in the definition of "raw materials and industrial spare parts," and consequently such import licenses required the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire and were subject to the import deposit requirement at the rate of 50 per cent (Letter N o. 4510 ). July 29. The Bank of Zaire announced that, unless it had granted specific approval, banks were no longer authorized to validate any import declarations payable at the time of shipment, including those relating to priority imports (foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, raw mate­ rials, and industrial spare parts), which now required a minimum trade credit of 90 days from the date of shipment. Mar i t ime freight payments could be effected at the time of shipment in the case of importations that were payable upon arrival (Letter N o. 4709 ). August 6. It was announced that cigarettes, cigars, and pipe tobacco manufactured abroad were not con­ sidered priority items. Tobacco leaves imported in bulk by TABAZAIRE would, however, be considered as a raw material (Letter N o. 4821 ). August 14. The deposit requirement on sugar was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent when imported by the Na t ional Sugar Office (Letter N o. 8058). August 30. Imports of raw materials and industrial spare parts effected by seven specified local companies were exempted from the deposit requirement and the deposit rate applied to imports of automotive spare parts was reduced to 20 per cent (Letter N o. 5160 ). October 21. New instructions were issued regulating the importation of samples without commercial value (Letters Nos. 5841 and 5964 ). October 23. P r ior Bank of Zaire approval of a ll import declarations and licenses for trading with Eastern European countries was no longer required, except when the country of origin and the country of shipment were not the same. Imports of baby foods from these coun­ tries were, however, subject to the prior approval requirement, the 50 per cent deposit requirement and the 90-day trade credit requirement (Letter N o. 5852). 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha. Since July 9, 1976 the central rate for the kwacha has been maintained in terms of the SDR at a rate of K 1 = S DR 1.08479, and Zambia continues to avail itself of wider margins. The U . S. do l­ lar is the intervention currency, and the Bank of Zam­ bia's rates for the U . S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U . S. d o l l a r - SDR rate. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks normally in U . S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia or on the basis of cross rates with the U . S. dol­ lar prevailing in the international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of V* of 1 per cent for purchases of foreign exchange and Vi of 1 per cent for sales. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the M in is ter of Finance. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con­ trol of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce, who also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is made by a committee on which the M in is t ry of Commerce, the M in is t ry of Finance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign cur­ rency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U . S. dollars or sterling. Special regu­ lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. A ll permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account earmarked Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhode­ sian Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in U . S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars. Proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U . S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments from residents of 512 Zambia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign cur­ rency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any for­ eign currency other than Rhodesian currency from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, wh ich also is blocked. Imports and Import Payments V i r tua l ly a ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import from a ll countries of certain specified commodities for health, safety, or moral reasons. Per­ sonal and household effects, samples, diplomatic ship­ ments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consump­ tion, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The two major mining compa­ nies and the M in i s t ry of Health are granted "blanket licenses" for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the M in is t ry of Commerce. A ll other imports require individual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a quarterly exchange a l lo c a t ion1 established by the M i n­ istry of Commerce in consultation w i th the M in is t ry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. A ll imports under individual licensing are first divided into S I T C2 three- digit groups and further subdivided into end-use group­ ings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. No rma l ly, raw materials, intermediate goods for further processing in Zambia, pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced loca l ly. In principle, xF r om July 1, 1977 basis. 2 Standard International Trade Classification. import licenses will be issued on a half-yearly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank. P r ior approval by the Bank of Zambia, however, is necessary for payments to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca in excess of K 20,000; payments for imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are not nor­ mally permitted unless no alternative source of supply is available. Most imported goods are subject upon customs clear­ ance to sales tax, at a rate of 25 per cent, calculated on the sum of 120 per cent of the customs value plus the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as business travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authori­ ties, except when payments and transfers in excess of K 20,000 to Rhodesia or South A f r i ca are involved. Special reduced allocations apply to payments for invis­ ibles to Rhodesia, and authorized dealers are not per­ mitted to make foreign exchange available for travel to Rhodesia. F or other countries, exchange is granted as follows: The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 50 a day for up to 15 days a person a calendar year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits may in certain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional treatment is justified. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 300 an adult for each calendar year. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for adve r t is ing, management, accoun t ing, administrative, engineering, and consulting services ren­ dered to residents by nonresidents are subject to ind i­ vidual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gener­ ally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing contracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.3 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 10 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital or 30 per cent of net profits accruing to the nonresi­ dent owners of incorporated companies, whichever is sma l le r .4-5 Fore ign companies operating in Zambia may 3 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 4 An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations after full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. 5 Under the terms of the 1977 budget, private investors were allowed to remit 15 per cent of the paid-up capital or 50 per cent of profits. Expatriate farmers were permitted to remit 12.5 per cent of their after tax profits, instead of 10 per cent. Z A M B IA remit declared profits and dividends once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depre­ ciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract basis and recruited after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit to their country of domicile a third of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971 and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date are allowed to remit to their country of domicile one half of their annual earn­ ings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; only one third of their leave pay is transferable. To facilitate payments of small amounts, individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to K 10 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities (including family maintenance). Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency .6 Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports valued at over K 50 require a license; minerals, however, are exported under general agree­ ments w i th the mining companies. The export of cer­ tain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Me tal Marke t ing Corporation. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. F or most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of ship­ ment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency.6 Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but, w i th the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, a ll borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control 6 Pr ior to the announcement of December 22, 1976, to take effect January 4, 1977, Zambian currency might not be imported or exported. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Z A M B IA authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 2. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this l im it for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. A ll income earned from these invest­ ments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per­ sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Ma r r ied persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarr ied persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigra­ tion allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compen­ sation payments, and terminal benefits up to a maximum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for refin­ ing and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided w i th the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1976 February 1. A tourist travel allowance of K 300 for an adult in each calendar year was introduced. March 26. The requirement that import licenses must be endorsed by Bank of Zambia officials for payment purposes was discontinued. March 30. A ll proceeds in foreign currencies realized from exports and retained in correspondent accounts of commercial banks were to be surrendered to the central bank. This measure was not implemented as it was overtaken by another measure introduced on July 21 (see be low ). June 9. Capitalization of free reserves in excess of the remittable portion under the formula 10 per cent or 30 per cent of equity or profits, whichever was the lower, was allowed provided that (1) the amount to be capitalized represented bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations of the applicant company after full provision for local taxation had been made and subject to a maximum amount of accumu­ lated undistributed profits for a period of three years; and (2) no element of revaluation of properties for whatever purpose was involved. Capitalization was also allowed where new funds had been brought into the country specifically for that purpose. July 9. The tie between the kwacha and the U .S. dollar was broken and the currency became linked to the S DR at a rate of K 1 = S DR 1.08479 as against the former implicit rate of K 1 = S DR 1.35767173. July 9. Import licenses were henceforth to be issued on a c.i.f. instead of the previous f.o.b. basis. July 21. A ll export receipts by Zambian companies were to be received via irrevocable letters of credit. July 24. A ll Un i ted Nations Development Program and Un i ted Nations personnel holding diplomatic pass­ ports were to be allowed on departure from the country to convert the balances in their External Accounts into convertible currencies. November 19. Business travel allowances were raised from K 40 to K 50 a day; the allowance for medical travel was increased from K 20 to K 25 a day; and the education allowance was raised from K 3,000 to K 3,500 a year. December 22. It was announced that w i th effect from January 4, 1977 travelers leaving or entering Zambia would be permitted to export or import a maximum of K 10 for each person in Zambian currency. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of &0 u 'a o d c* ( ; e m o b i n a c E n i b i l c o f f n a h g i t s n a I r e g i a e g r n i t a n u t s a r i l a .5 '£ i a h m a s i h a r i n t g n l d a s e h i r o d a b s l ; g i u m - L u 'c ) oa oa i l v i a ) s t w a n a 'N a i oa 03 r m a l r d n u i i m n o o r e m a d a m t a r l A f r i «s 6 i l a n , R e u p l ) o m b i a D o g n , P o e j t s ) a R i a c / p r u s < < < < < oa oa oa U U U u U U U U U 1. A r t i c le V I II status - - • • • • • - - • - • - - - - - • - - - - - - • - 2. A r t i c le X IV status • • - - - - - • 3. E x ch an ge rate ma in ta in ed w i th in re lat ive ly na r row m a r g i n s3 in terms o f: (a) U . S. d o l l ar A • • • • • • A • • A • • A • • (b) sterling • (c) F r e n ch franc - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - • • - - - • - - (d) A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r, S o u th A l e an r a n d, or Span i sh peseta (e) a g r oup of currenc ies (under m u t u al in terven t ion arrange­ ments) • ( /) a compo s i te of currenc ies - • - - • - - - - - - - - - • • - - - - - - - - - - • 4. E x ch an ge rate not m a in t a in ed w i th in re lat ive ly na r row marg ins as in (a)-(f) above _ _ • _ _ _ 7 7 7 7 _ 7 7 7 • 7 • 7 7 • T • 7 • 7 7 7 7 7 7 5. Sp e c ial exchange rate regime for some or a ll cap i tal transact ions a n d / or some or a ll inv is ib les # • • • 6. Imp o rt rate(s) different f r om export rate(s) • - • • • • 7. M o re than one rate for impor ts • • 8. M o re than one rate for exports • 9. R e s t r i c t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of current t ran sa c t ion s4 • • • - - - - • • - - - - • • • - - - - - • • - - t 10. Re s tr ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal t r a n s a c t i o n s45 11. P r e s c r ip t ion of cu r r en cy • • • • - - - 12. B i la t e ral paymen ts arrangements w i th members • • • • • • • • 13. B i la teral paymen ts arrangements w ith nonm emb e rs • • • • • • • 14. Imp o rt surcharges - - • • - - • - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • - - • - - 15. A d v a n ce imp o rt deposits V • - - • • • • • • - 16. Surrender of export proceeds r equ i r ed • • • • - - - 17. Part of F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea or U . K. Schedu led T e r r i t o r i es • • - • • - - - • - - 18. Part ic ipates in reg ional e c on om ic c o o p e r a t i o n6 - F or key a nd foo tno t e s, see page 520. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 D e n m r a k D o m i n i n a c R e b u p i l c E c r o d a u E p y g t E l a S l r o d a v E a u q t r o i a l G u i n a e E t h i p o i a 9 F i n l d n a F n a r e c i G n o b a T h e G a m b i a G r e m y n a , F e d . R e p . o f G a n a h G e c e e r G e r a d a n G a u t e m a l a G u i n a e G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o a r s H g n o K g n o e c I l d n a I d n i a I n o d n s e i a c «j a* cS t-i I e r l d n a e a r s I l t I a l y I y r o v C a o t s a J m a i a c n a p a J r o J n a d • • • - • - - • • • - • - - • - - - • - • • • • - - - - - • • - • • • - • - • - - • - - - - - • - - • - • • - • • • - • - - - - • • • • • - • • • • - • - - - - - • - • • - • • • - - - • - - - - • - - • • W w • • • • • • - • - • • - - - • • • - • • - • • • • • - • 7 • • • • • • - • • • • _ • • • _ • • _ # • • • • - • — - — _ _ _ _ • • • _ _ - • • — • — • - - • • • • • - - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - • • • • - • • • - • • • • - - - - - • • - - - * - - 7 - - - • • • • • • • • — • • — • — - - - - - - - - - • - - - - • - - • • • • • • • - - • • - - • - - • - - - - • - • - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - » - • • • — • • • For key and footnotes, see page 520. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of K e a y n K a e r o K u w a t i L e n o n a b L s e o t o h | L i b r e i a j L i n a y b A b a r R e p . j M a g a d a r a c s j M a l a w i j M a l y a s i a | M a i l | M a t l a | M u a r t i n a i a | M u a r i t i u s | M x e i o c { M o c c o r o | N e a p l j N e t h r e l d n a s j N e t h r e l d n a s A n l l i t s e | N e w Z a e l d n a | N i a u g a r a c | N i r e g | N i r e g i a | N r o w y a 1. A r t i c le V I II status - - • - - - - - - • - - - - • - - • • - • - - • - • • - - • - • • • • 2. A r t i c le X IV status • • - • • • • • • • - • • • • - 3. E x ch an ge rate m a in t a in ed w i th in re lat ive ly n a r r ow m a r g i n s3 in terms o f: (a) U . S. d o l l ar • • • (b) ster l ing (c) F r e n ch franc - - - - - - - • - - • - - - - - - - - - - • - - (d) A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r, S o u th A f r i c an r a n d, or Sp an i sh peseta • (e) a g r o up of currenc ies (under m u t u al in terven t ion arrange­ ments) • • • - • - - - • - - - - • • _ • ( /) a compo s i te of currenc ies • • • • • • - • • 4. E x ch an ge rate not ma in ta in ed w i th in re lat ive ly n a r r ow marg ins as in (a)-(f) above • 5. Spec ial exchange rate reg ime for some or a ll cap i tal transac t ions a n d / or some or a ll inv is ib les _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ • _ • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 6. Imp o rt rate(s) different f r om expo rt rate(s) • • • 7. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 8. M o re than one rate for exports 9. R e s t r i c t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of current t r an s a c t i on s4 • • - - - - 0 • • - - • • • - • • - - - - • • - 10. R e s t r i c t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal t r an s a c t i on s4-5 11. P r e s c r ip t i on of currency • • - - • - - • • • • - • • - • • • • • - - • • - 12. B i la t e ral paymen ts arrangemen ts w i th members - - - • - - - - - - • - - - • - - - • - - - - - - • - - - • • • 13. B i la t e ral paymen ts arrangements w i th nonm emb e rs 14. Im p o rt surcharges - • - • - - • - • - • • • - - - • • - • - • - • • - - 15. A d v a n ce im p o rt deposits 16. Su r r end er of export proceeds r equ i r ed 17. Part of F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea or U . K. Schedu led T e r r i to r i es • • 18. Par t ic ipa tes in reg ional e c on om ic c o o p e r a t i o n6 For key and footnotes, see page 520. 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 m O n a P k a i t s n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e w G u i n a e P y a u g a r a P r e u 7 h P i l i p p i n s e P r o t a g u l Q a t r a R o m n a i a w R a d n a d u a S i A b a r i a S e n a g e l S i a r r e L n o e e S i e r o p a g n 7 o S m a i l a u o S t h A f r i a c a p S i n S r i L a k n a n a d u S S w z a l i d n a S w e d e n r y S i n a A b a r R e p . T n a n a z i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T r i n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r k y e U a d n a g U n t i e d A b a r E m i a r t s e U n t i e d K i o d g n m U n t i e d S t a t s e U p p r e V o t l a • - • • - • - - • - - • - - • - • - - - - • - - - - - - - - • • • - - - - - • • • • • A • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • - - • • - - - - • • - - - • - • • - - - - • • • • • • • - - - - - • • - - - • - - - - - - • - • - - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - • - - - - • - - - - - • - - • • • • • • • - - - - • - - - - • - - - - - • - - • • • - • - - • • • • - • • - - • - • - • • • - - • • - - - • • • - - - - - - - . — - • - - - - - • - • • - • - • - - • • • • • • - - - • - - - - - • - - - - - - • - - - - - - - • - • - - - • - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - - • • • • • - - - • • - - • - - • • • - - - • - - - • • - • - • • • - - • - • - - - - • - - - - • - • • • - • • • - - - • F or key a nd foo tno t e s, see page 520. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems1 (as at date of country survey)2 U r y a u g u V e n z e u e l a E Z > W t s e r e n a S m a o Y e m e n A b a r R e p . Y e m e n , P p o e . D e m . R e p . Y o g u s l v a i a Z a i e r | Z a m b i a 1. A r t i c le V I II status - • • 2. A r t i c le X IV status - K ey and Footnotes 3. E x ch an ge rate ma in ta in ed w i th in re lat ive ly na r row m a r g i n s3 in terms o f: (a) U . S. d o l l ar (b) ster l ing (c) F r e n ch franc (d) A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r, S o u th A f r i c an r a n d, or Span i sh peseta (e) a g r oup of currenc ies (under m u t u al in terven t ion arrange­ ments) ( /) a compo s i te of currenc ies 4. E x ch an ge rate not ma in ta in ed w i th in re lat ive ly na r row marg ins as in (a)-(f) above 5. Spec ial exchange rate reg ime for some or a ll cap i tal transac t ions a n d / or some or a ll inv is ib les 6. Imp o rt rate(s) different f r om export rate(s) 7. M o re than one rate for impor ts 8. M o re than one rate for exports 9. R e s t r i c t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of current t r an s a c t i on s4 • • • • • • • 10 • • • • • • • • • • • • • ind icates that prac t ice exists; - ind icates that prac t ice exists; - ind icates that practice does ind icates that practice does not exist; a nd 0 indicates that p o s i t i on is unde term ined. not exist; a nd 0 indicates that p o s i t i on is unde term ined. A indicates that the rate for the U . S. d o l l ar is changed at relatively A indicates that the rate for the U . S. d o l l ar is changed at relatively short interva ls. short interva ls. • • indicates that the compo s i te is the S D R. indicates that the compo s i te is the S D R. 1 Pract ices ind ica ted as existing do not necessarily apply to all 1 Pract ices ind ica ted as existing do not necessarily apply to all transac t ions. transac t ions. 2 In most cases, D e c emb er 31, 1976. W h e re the date is a different 2 In most cases, D e c emb er 31, 1976. W h e re the date is a different one, this is ind ica ted in a foo tno te. one, this is ind ica ted in a foo tno te. 3 M a r g i ns of app rox ima t e ly 2% per cent either side of parity. 3 M a r g i ns of app rox ima t e ly 2% per cent either side of parity. 4 Paymen ts to member coun tr ies. Re s tr ic t ions 4 Paymen ts to member coun tr ies. Re s tr ic t ions in the form of in the form of quan t i ta t ive l im i ts or undue delay other than restrictions imposed quan t i ta t ive l im i ts or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. for security reasons. 5 R e s id en t -own ed fund s. 5 R e s id en t -own ed fund s. 6 M em b e r s h ip i n, or assoc ia t ion w i th, A n g l o - I r i sh Free Trade 6 M em b e r s h ip i n, or assoc ia t ion w i th, A n g l o - I r i sh Free Trade A r e a, A r ab C o m m on M a r k e t, A s i an C l e a r i ng U n i o n, Association A r e a, A r ab C o m m on M a r k e t, A s i an C l e a r i ng U n i o n, Association of Sou th Ea st A s i an N a t i o n s, A u s t r a l i a -N ew Z e a l a nd Free Trade of Sou th Ea st A s i an N a t i o n s, A u s t r a l i a -N ew Z e a l a nd Free Trade Ag r e em en t, B a n g k ok Agreemen t, C a r i b b e an C o m m on Market, Ag r e em en t, B a n g k ok Agreemen t, C a r i b b e an C o m m on Market, C a r t a g ena Ag r e em en t, C e n t r al A f r i c an C u s t oms and Economic C a r t a g ena Ag r e em en t, C e n t r al A f r i c an C u s t oms and Economic U n i o n, C e n t r al Am e r i c an C o m m on M a r k e t, C o m m on Organiza­ U n i o n, C e n t r al Am e r i c an C o m m on M a r k e t, C o m m on Organiza­ t ion of A f r i c an and M a u r i t i an States, C o u n c il for M u t u al Economic t ion of A f r i c an and M a u r i t i an States, C o u n c il for M u t u al Economic A s s i s tance, Ea st A f r i c an C o m m u n i t y, E c o n om ic Commun i ty of A s s i s tance, Ea st A f r i c an C o m m u n i t y, E c o n om ic Commun i ty of We st A f r i c an States, E u r o p e an E c o n om ic C omm u n i t y, European We st A f r i c an States, E u r o p e an E c o n om ic C omm u n i t y, European F r ee T r a de A s s o c i a t i o n, L a t in Am e r i c an Free T r a de Association, F r ee T r a de A s s o c i a t i o n, L a t in Am e r i c an Free T r a de Association, L e a gue of A r ab States, R a nd M o n e t a ry A r ea (Le so tho, South L e a gue of A r ab States, R a nd M o n e t a ry A r ea (Le so tho, South A f r i c a, and Swa z i land ), R e g i o n al C o o p e r a t i on for Development A f r i c a, and Swa z i land ), R e g i o n al C o o p e r a t i on for Development (Iran, Pak i s tan, and T u r k e y ), or West A f r i c an Cu s t oms Un ion (or (Iran, Pak i s tan, and T u r k e y ), or West A f r i c an Cu s t oms Un ion (or West A f r i c an E c o n om ic C omm u n i t y ). West A f r i c an E c o n om ic C omm u n i t y ). 7 Po s i t ion on Janua ry 1, 1977. 7 Po s i t ion on Janua ry 1, 1977. 8 T he impo rt surcharges do not affect any items b ound under the 8 T he impo rt surcharges do not affect any items b ound under the G A TT nor any items negotiated w ith L A F TA countr ies. 9 Po s i t ion on Janua ry 8, 1977. 10 A p p l i es to the S o u th V ie tnamese d o n g. 10. R e s t r i c t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal t r a n s a c t i o n s4 ,5 • — • • • • • • • • • • • • 11. P r e s c r ip t i on of currency 12. B i la t e ral paymen ts arrangemen ts w i th members • 13. B i la t e ral paymen ts arrangemen ts w ith nonm emb e rs - - - • - - - - - - - - 14. Imp o rt surcharges • - • • • 15. A d v a n ce im p o rt depos its - - - • - - - 16. Su r r end er of export proceeds r equ i r ed • - 17. Part of F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea or U . K. Schedu led T e r r i to r i es 18. Par t ic ipa tes in reg ional e c on om ic c o o p e r a t i o n6 • • - _ • • - • - 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 